#######https://www.kaggle.com/snap/amazon-fine-food-reviews

,,,,,"Tastes Good, But it's a lot of one flavor","The Chocolate Mocha flavor of this Hot Cocoa is really nice. It's different from the usual Hot Cocoa since it has a hint of Coffee. The quality is definitely there, I find it to be better then the Godiva brand. Mixes extremely easily, there is no residue and works with milk or even water mixed with half and half. I must say that it is a bit much of the same flavor, I would have rather 4 different flavors since the containers are big. Worth it though! A++"
,,,,,Delicious,"Best mix on the market for making cafe mocha lattes, and we've tried them all"
,,,,,simply the dest,"The best hot chocolate,by far.. Not so easily available in my area.<br />Love the mocha & the double chocolate"
,,,,,Sweet compensation from hard work on a cold day.,"Easy to use (do not abuse),<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000H27NU6"">Ghirardelli Chocolate Premium Hot Cocoa Mix, Double Chocolate, 16-Ounce Tins (Pack of 4)</a> great taste. It makes you to feel good."
,,,,,Beyond Hot Mocha Cocoa,"Try a little sprinkle on ice cream, makes a good milkshake, mix it in cakes or brownies, sprinkle on the cake, enhance coffee drinks and liquors, get rid of that pesky cat, add texture to Barry and Levon's 240 pounds of pudding, brown paper mache, movie prop heroin, or dip your bananas in it.  I consume it with BlueBell Homemade Vanilla ice cream.  I like the double chocolate better."
,,,,,Not as rich and satisfying as I thought,"Not really sure what I expected, but since I like Ghirardelli chocolate, and I like hot chocolate and hot mochas from coffee shops, I thought I'd like this product.<br /><br />Unfortunately, despite following the directions and making this in milk, it's not as rich and satifying as I hoped.  I hate to say it, but I think Swiss Miss mixed Instant coffee tastes better than this.<br /><br />That's unfortunate, because this is a four pack of cannisters and I'm only half way through the first one!"
,,,,,dented containers but good contents.,"love the contents, but two of eight containers were badly dented.<br /><br />jan"
,,,,,Quick bread,"Great product! Love making this during the fall and winter months because the smell goes through the entire house reminding me of Christmas. Taste great too especially when warm and with cream cheese. Have made it for co-workers who always rave about it. It's easy to make up, too."
,,,,,So GOOD!,"I cannot tell you how many of these I made between Thanksgiving and Christmas!  Fast, convenient and SO DELICIOUS!  I got rave reviews!  Thanks!"
,,,,,Apple of My Eye,"I have tried nearly all of the Pillsbury quick bread mixes, and this is my favorite.  And of course it is nearly impossible to find in a store in my area so I am really happy to find it on Amazon.  This has a packet of actual diced apple in syrup (sort of like the canned apples for pie).  It makes great muffins or coffee cake also.  You can add things to it, like raisins, cranberries, nuts, etc.  Just super - I recommend it!"
,,,,,NOT Organic!!!,I bought this product and when it arrived it was not organic.  BEWARE!  The package shown in the photo is not an organic product.
,,,,,Perfect for snack bag,This is the perfect size for a snack bag for school.  Minus one star because the glue for the straws also glues the wrapper to all of the boxes.  That's annoying.
,,,,,I received organic juice.,"I wonder if the other reviewer's order got mixed up at the warehouse or something?  We received organic juice boxes, just like the title says."
,,,,,Utterly Fabulous!,I absolutely love the Peanut Butter and Strawberry Kind bars! They taste just like a peanut butter and jelly sandwich!
,,,,,These would be perfect for you if you are getting tired of the other potato chips!,"These potato chips are probably the best chips I flavor ever have. The spicy barbecue is the perfect mix of flavors! I have had tons of these chips and still they never get old. It fits one person per bag.  After a few chips, you will taste the spicy part.  Every time I see the bag, my mouth just waters.<br /><br />These would be perfect for you if you are getting tired of the other potato chips!<br /><br />Depending on the stores, sometimes shipping can be expensive.  If that is the case, most of the times you can find it at your local oriental groceries."
,,,,,DELICIOUS!!!,"oh man, i love this candy! it's super delicious, but its really not that sour. I'd always collect a giant cache of quarters and spend it all on these for 50 cents each! =)"
,,,,,Master of Mixes just as good as scratch,"Our friends from Germany visited with us a few weeks back, and one of them adores Manhattans. She had them here 15 years back, and when I no longer could find a bottled mix locally, I ordered it from the Internet. This is my first experience with Master of Mixes, and the Manhattans turned out great, just as good as if I had made them from scratch. A great product!"
,,,,,Just Great!,"I just love this Chili--it is beefier/chunkier than other no-beans chilis and the blend of seasoning is simply outstanding--much more savory and less of an assault to the tastebuds than Hormel's in my opinion.  Goes great on a hot dog, a baked potato, good to dip tortilla chips in and a wonderful companion to grilled cheese sandwiches or just toasted english muffins."
,,,,,ITS OK,"so anyways, i wished that i could find ginseng tea more easier, but for the price excluding the shipping i suppose its allright. comes in a weird form, not powder kinda like small bits of grass. Taste fine not sour or sweet"
,,,,,Good stuff BUT....,Packed poorly in shipping and a few had the seal broken because they were rolling around in the box!
,,,,,tasty drink mix,"Very good lemonade mix.  Close to fresh in taste.  Love that it has stevia.  I like it so much more than crystal light or any of the other mixes with artificial sweeteners.  I can take it anywhere, mix it in bottled water, and have a refreshing, healthy, safe, cool drink."
,,,,,A New Staple,"Bull Dog's Chuno has become a flavorful addition to my kitchen.  I've used it in everything: marinades, rice, stir fries, vegetables, etc.  I've also used it by itself or as a base to dipping sauces.  It also adds a nice component to homemade bbq sauce.  If I had to compare it to something it would be steak sauce.  Everytime I want to change a dish up a bit, I use chuno.  I've bought mine from somewhere else and didn't know it came in larger sizes.  The offering here is almost double the size, but it's also almost triple the price.  However, if the place I buy it from were to stop, I'd buy it here without fail.  I just wish they had the 50% less salt version."
,,,,,Oily to the touch,My dogs loved these...they were cheap too.  Only problem is they are oily to the touch...given they outside is great!
,,,,,Tasty AND Healthy,"Arrowhead Mills Organic Savory Herb stuffing has a very nice blend of herbs for a flavor that compliments chicken and turkey. I especially appreciate the fact that there are no transfats used in this stuffing so I and my family can enjoy it without worry! The stuffing is very easy to prepare, but really adds to the meal. We use it all year long. Why wait for a holiday to enjoy good food?"
,,,,,Pez,This was a christmas present for my son in law who collects super hero stuff. He was surprised but really liked it.
,,,,,Delicious Tea,"My daughter loved the little tin that came with her Adagio tea set so much that I got her a cannister of this for Christmas.  I think it will end up being a regular gift as we all love it so much.  It really is delicious, and with green tea being so good for you, we drink it all the time.  All the products I've tried from Adagio have been wonderful."
,,,,,Love this tea!,"I am hooked on it.  It's just wonderful.  Highly recommended for taste and flavor and price.  I've tried different teas from different restaurants and tea houses, but I just love this one for home.  I use it nearly every day.  Will be trying more of these teas in the future."
,,,,,WOW!,"I normally hate, hate, hate citrus anything in my tea.  I always thought it tasted the way lemon dish soap smells.  I received this tea in a sampler and wow, I can't get enough of it.  It's the first citrus flavored tea I've ever liked in my life.  It smells really good, sorta like Froot Loops, and I didn't even need to put any sugar or honey in it to enjoy it."
,,,,,THIS PRODUCT IS ENRICHED WITH LEMON JUICE,"The pack of six bottles was delivered in a timely manner but when I opened up a bottle, the juice tasted sour.  I thought that it had spoiled in transit and considered returning the remaining bottles but then I noticed the very bottom line on the product label,""Enriched with Organic Lemon Juice"".  It was too much trouble to return and, while I do not totally enjoy the tartness that the lemon juice adds, it is at least still pure and organic and healthy.<br /><br />I would not have ordered the product had I known that it was not JUST carrot juice but carrot juice with ""organic lemon juice"" added to it.  Perhaps this is why the price is so very right but I feel misled.<br /><br />It takes some getting used to if you are seeking the taste of carrot juice.  Before you order this item, I would suggest you buy a small bottle of carrot juice and squeeze some lemon juice into it to preview the effect of having lemon juice flavored carrot juice."
,,,,,Excellent juice,"It's hard to find carrot juice  in stores so I gave it a try and ordered some juice from this seller via amazon....even so I felt kind of poshy doing so.<br />Well, I will do it again. My six bottles of juice were shipped super fast, packaging was very good. The juice itself is excellent. It is actually that rich in taste that I mix it half with water or apple juice. That way the already reasonable price  becomes even better.<br />I am really glad I gave it a try. Drinking a glas of carrot juice a day works wonders on my skin."
,,,,,Truly pure is better,"My recommendation? Get a juicer and make your own, or try Odwalla. The taste was bitter, and the smell was strange and foul. The label says ""Enriched with organic lemon juice"" and that is not pure carrot juice in my book. Maybe it was the lemon I tasted, I don't know. I had about three sips and couldn't stomach it."
,,,,,BEST EVER!!,This carrot juice is the best.  I've tried so many other brands and this is the tastiest.  We love the Carrot/orange and the Super Veggie too. It's healthy and great tasting...can't get better then that.
,,,,,Carrot Juice???? Really????,"Talk about horrible . . .<br />I was craving carrot juice and the store was out of the brand I normally like which has what I like for ingredients: Carrot Juice.<br /><br />I did see before buying that it said it had Organic Lemon Juice in it when I looked at the ingredients but I figured that the makers would only add it if it didn't change the taste that much.  Well all I have to say is I taste no semblance of carrots at all.  It tasted more like drinking a bad V-8 or something.  Then after sipping a couple of ounces I now have an acid reflux feeling in my throat and chest.  I drink water with lemon pretty often and never have that happen.  So now I'm wondering exactly how much lemon juice is in here.<br /><br />If you want carrot juice this is NOT for you.  I don't even think they should call it that . . .<br /><br />I don't normally do it, but I am seriously considering taking this back to the supermarket.  I also think I should write a letter to the company because it is just that ridiculously bad."
,,,,,sour,"I tried this carrot juice for the first time today and regret buying it.  I took my first sip and actually wondered if someone had put pickle juice in the jar.  It was awful.  I've had several carrot juices and never had any as sour as this.  It is difficult to fathom how this product is still produced.  It has lemon juice in it, but apparently far far too much.  If you enjoy pickle juice with your carrot juice, you will love this product.  I don't."
,,,,,AWFUL,"I don't know how they did it - but this is by far the worst tasting carrot juice I have ever had.  I think it has to do with the long shelf life - expires in 2012, I drank it in 2010 (well I tried to drink it).  It was probably bottled in 2007 or something.<br /><br />YYEECCHH!!"
,,,,,"PURE = 99%, Brilliant strategy from Lakewood's short bus marketing team","First Indiana Jones found the ""Lost Ark of the Covenant"", then the ""Mystical Stone from the Temple of Doom"", then ""The Holy Grail"" and finally the ""Palace of The Crystal Skull""...But the loser still cant find ""The Lost Lakewood Bottle of Real, Honest 100% ""PURE CARROT Juice"" Minus Lemons"" not without ""Short Round"" anyway.<br /><br />I tried to leave ""no stars"" or fewer cuz, I felt and tasted the pain of other misguided customers, I spewed out my first rancid acidic taste of this clearly labeled, ""PURE CARROT"" Juice. Lakewood's knucklehead faux pas is their troglodytian approach to the label design. I can easily read ""PURE CARROT"" and ""PURE"" again, just above the illustration of ""CARROTS ONLY"" (but nada lemons), but in much smaller print at the very bottom of the label and below the CARROTS ONLY illustration (sans lemons), it mentions ""enriched with lemons"", 1% to be exact, which means 99% of their marketing team make O'Donnell look constitutionally wise.<br /><br />Intentional or not, it aint the keenest marketing approach to ""thinking"" consumers. To paraphrase a wiser woman, ""You might want to rethink those ties."" (LABELS in this case)~ E.Brockovich ~.  Even Juicy Juice was smart enough to clear up their ambiguously labeled products.  Today's McFly FYI and word of the day is ""PURE"", and brought to you from my sponsor, ""Merriam Webster"": PURE : unmixed with any other matter. As in Gold, Pure Gold, Jerry. (I watch tv and commercials, does it show?)<br /><br />For an amazing ride courtesy of the ""short bus marketing team"" see the label here:<br />http://www.amazon.com/Lakewood-Organic-PURE-Carrot-Juice/dp/B0000ZSHAK<br />Click on the photo and zoom in to find the 1% of Einsteinian logic or lack there of.  Finding the PURE BS or at least 99.9% requires no zoom, matter of fact arms length, like in a grocery store aisle is close enough to be misdirected.<br /><br />Ok Lakewood, so, think what you will about my criticism be it glib, harsh, frank, curt or possibly even unfair or totally wrong.  On the other hand, I think not but I would love to be proven wrong.  Are you game for a little challenge: Get three 3rd graders, heck even three 3 year olds and give them each 3 crayons, green, yellow and orange.  Now ask them to draw a picture for the label of juice which contains, ""carrots and lemons"" or if your brave enough for a real acid test, ""lemons and carrots.""  All I am saying, is give 3's a chance! In a world of scams, rip-offs and misconceptions and misdirection...be honest and be excellent to one another.<br /><br />No hard feelings, right?<br /><br />Ret Hink aka Curt Frank aka bombastic sarcastic B@5t@rD"
,,,,,Hard to tell,Been waiting for this to be shipped for over 30 days.  Might be OK - hard to tell unless they send it.
,,,,,best almonds ever!,"They are very hard to find but whenever I do I try to stock up. Great flavor, perfect for munching on and still pretty healthy. Highly recommended."
,,,,,Excellent quality,"I purchased this product for my goats initially. I like to give a warm drink of molasses water to my does after they kid and I also give a tablespoon full to any goat that seems to be feeling poorly. It seems to give them a good boost when they most need it. I bought an extra bottle for the house because I have always loved a bit of molasses on my biscuits. Much of the molasses, even that labeled blackstrap, that I have been finding in recent years is bland and seems to lack flavor. This molasses is quite delicious, if you like molasses, and is rich and flavorful. It also has high iron content, higher than I was finding in other brands."
,,,,,Blackstrap Molasses,Product contains 70% of adult requirement for iron in one tablespoon; yet is safe and gentle on the digestive system.  Ordered and sent to my 82 year-old mother who had had some problems with diverticulitis.  She took three tablespoons a day for a week then tapered down.  She felt stronger in days!
,,,,,Great Iron Content AND Decent Taste!,"My wife has a difficult time getting enough iron, and supplements are very hard on her stomach.  With 70% of the USRDA of iron in one serving of this blackstrap molasses, she can very easily get the iron she needs.  This is not in any way hard on her stomach, either.  It tastes very good compared to other blackstraps we tried - a few have a slight edge on taste but none on iron content.  Blackstrap is an acquired taste but worth it for natural nutrients.  This definitely picked up her step within a very short time (she gets low energy and tired when she needs iron).  We will definitely be buying this again."
,,,,,Very High in Iron,"I bought this for my mother on the recommendation of my family physician.  He said my mom has iron deficiency anemia.  As the name implies, iron deficiency anemia is due to insufficient iron. Without enough iron, your body can't produce enough hemoglobin, a substance in red blood cells that enables them to carry oxygen. As a result, iron deficiency anemia can leave you tired and short of breath.  The solution: boost your iron intake.<br /><br />One tablespoon of this tasty delight has 70% RDA of iron and it tastes pretty good too.  If you like the taste of black licorice, I'd say you'll probably like the taste of this."
,,,,,Not unsulphered,"I bought this molasses at a local grocery store and nowhere on the bottle does it state that it is, 'unsulphered'. I called the company and talked to a sales rep in which he stated that it was not unsulphered. Although it does have a higher percentage of iron, I'm going back to Plantation."
,,,,,Blackstrap molasses,"Its a great product.I would recommend this to everyone who wants a tasty sweetner other than sugar.I just started using it,taste so good,the jar is almost finished."
,,,,,yuck!,"This stuff does not taste like black licorice or sweet in any way to me.  It tastes kind of like thick, nasty soy sauce.  I can't see how anyone could take 3 tablespoons a week of this.  I barely managed to swallow the teaspoon I put in my mouth.  We eat very healthy and not much sugar but my tastebuds say ""no way!"" to this stuff.  It does have 70% of your daily iron so I will make some attempts to hide this in something else- though I really can't imagine what right now.<br /><br />In addition, the cap was not on tightly when the package arrived and the black goo had leaked out into into the packaging.  They did have it wrapped securely in bubble wrap though, so it only got on that.  Still, not pleasant to have to clean the container before I could open it."
,,,,,A winner in the iron category,"I love the fact that this has so much iron in it.  I'm a vegan and it's not easy to get enought iron.  The molasses isn't quite as tasty as some I've had, but it has about 5 times more iron, so I'm ok with it.  I don't think anyone would buy molasses online if they just wanted a tasty food, so I guess it's a winner."
,,,,,Fabuloous on cat with bladder cysts,My cat suffers from bladder cysts frequently since i have used this now since november 2011 he has not had 1 attack of not being able to pass his urine. i place a few drops in his food every week. btw he does not like it but tolrates it. at first i had to use eye dropper and place a few drops in his mouth but after time he got used to it. a giant thank you this has saved me so much worry whether or not he will be ok.
,,,,,Basket Delight,"I bought this statehood gift basket to break apart the items into smaller gifts for friends/family.  It's over priced so I will not buy this again.  The contents are mainly food made in China,  like graham crackers and taffy etc. One of the reasons I wanted it was for the beautiful XL ceramic coffee mug in this set.  Basket/item  is really large due to all the fancy packaging like novelty wrapping/cardboard for bulk, so there is not that much in there.  It's fun to open and it will bring back memories of a state you resided in.  Overall I was delighted with it but not the outrageous price for China made items and some items listed in the product were NOT included in this particular gift.  ( items vary per set )"
,,,,,best tasting chocolate beverage,"Wow, this tastes great, sweet and chocolaty! Like a liquid chocolate bar.<br /><br />Plus it is organic!<br /><br />It does contain high-glycemic cane juice, so I don't drink too much. The original and vanilla flavors are sweetened with low-glycemic rice syrup. They have less sugar. All are organic.<br /><br />I don't know why the ingredients here say canola oil. Neither the Good Karma website nor the label on the box has that ingredient. If I verified that this site is correct, and the Good Karma corporate website and the label on the carton are wrong, I would stop using the product. Perhaps this page has outdated ingredient information.<br /><br />This is the richest most milk-like rice beverage and the label on it does not mention canola oil, which contains up to 2% toxic erucic acid and is found in many rice beverages that are fed to children! Canola oil cannot be used by US FDA regulation in infant food. (One research paper found higher levels of erucic acid in red blood cells of autistic children compared to non-autistic children, and there are many other well established toxic effects of erucic acid in humans and animals. Look in the medical journals.)<br /><br />This product is sold in my neighborhood Ralph's (best price), VC discount, and Whole Foods in Los Angeles.<br /><br />The 365 brand (Whole Foods own brand) is also canola-free. It is much cheaper but watery in comparison. I use it for cooking. Only plain and vanilla flavors, though.<br /><br />West Soy Rice beverage is also canola free. It has a more neutral taste and less body. They have a chocolate flavor.<br /><br />Many people find rice milk better tasting than other milk substitutes. I find it to be much easier to digest than soy and nut products. Soy milk, however, has much more protein. Aside from being hard to digest, I don't eat too much soy because of the anti-nutritional components; so I get my protein elsewhere."
,,,,,This milk is really good!,"It is a tiny bit grainy .. but it doesn't bother me a bit, my kids really like it - I use this as a ""chocolate syrup"" substitute in my kids milk to make the box go further - they really love it - it's great drinking it full strength too.  Not too sweet.  We love it!"
,,,,,Delicious!,I love this ricemilk.  It has the consistency of almond milk and no soy.
,,,,,Saba,"I am a Saba fan.  It is expensive for this but the intensive flavor given to salad dressings, dips, etc is without equal.  Use your imagination for this fruity/astringent addition.  The only responsibily bad results is yours for poor execution."
,,,,,Very good Vanilla,This is the second time that I ordered this product and I've been very happy with it.
,,,,,Other brands don't compare!,"Found these at a local grocery store and just about fell in love with them.  Their taste is fresher and most of the seeds live up to their name.  I got original, ranch and sizzlin bacon - they're all great!  When my grocery store told me they got Bigs as a one-time deal, I was happy to find them at Amazon.  If you're a seeder you've gotta try these."
,,,,,Flamingo?,"The shipping was very prompt and the packaging excellent.  All other items in this order were excellent.  These were lollipops shaped and ""painted"" like flamingos.  But you have to hold them up close to the eye to figure out what they are!  They'll be ""OK"" to set out on the candy buffet, but they won't be the eye-catching item we'd anticipated when we ordered."
,,,,,freakin rocks man!!!!,"Licorice freakin rocks man, i like to take the licorice ropes and choke my self till im blue, then chew my way out. man this stuff is like crack, i just want roll it up and smoke it like a big fatty."
,,,,,Great Product & Service,Excited to have been able to find this candy as have been looking for ages. Was received very quickly and the candy was well packaged and fresh flavor.Will buy again. Thank you.
,,,,,Best tasting protein power around.,"I've tried a bunch of them and the taste of this product is outstanding.  Even the folks behind the counter at my gym commented on it and they sell a competing product.  Give it a try, you won't be disappointed."
,,,,,Very good,"It tastes delisious, and works efectively if yo drink it at the rigth time. Lean body is the suplement with the best flavor I've ever tasted"
,,,,,Tastes great!,"Great meal replacement drink that tastes great!  You get plenty of protein and other vital nutrients.  I prepare one of these whenever I'm on the go and I won't have to worry about missing a meal.  The best bang for your buck, especially if you subscribe to the Amazon subscribe and save program."
,,,,,MMM + MMM = YUMMY,So I was doing my daily grocery shopping on Amazon and I was like awwww yeah there are some Rice Krispie treats sure can just make them in the kitchen but then you have to clean the spoon and wash the stove and then find some saran wrap in the kitchen to keep them more yummy for the next days....instead order these its simple a nice size treat that will give you plenty of treats for one day...high five to snap crackle and pop you guys rule. have a nice day k
,,,,,Perfect Nutrition,This product is perfect for my Cavalier King Charles Spaniel puppy. His stools are very regular and healthy. My Vet was very pleased to know I picked this product instead of a regular store brand. It's all natural and my puppy loves it. :)
,,,,,Great vendor! Quality product.,"Flour type 00 is better than regular flour.  Whether frying it or baking it, dough maintains softness and pliability.<br />I like it a lot."
,,,,,Worth the money,"Bought four, 2 lb bags and use them to make bread and pizza dough. If you have fantacies of that perfect italian pizza you had  while touring through Italia, this flour is just the thing. The dough even smells slightly better, the final product produces the closest thing to that wonderful crust you can't find in the USA.  It's worth the dough, for the dough."
,,,,,Antimo Capputo,This is the best flour for home made pizza. It has the best tasting crust I have found. It works best in a super hot oven if you don't have a pizza oven.
,,,,,Best tasting soft wheat flour,"I make a lot of bread.  My family's favorite is my focaccia.  I had been purchasing a very ""well known"" flour prior to trying this.  I am so happy I did try it.  I thought my italian breads could not get any better, but this bring it up a notch.  I am comparing this to all the other 00 flours.  If you are a bread maker I urge you to include in your next order. maria domenica"
,,,,,Too Sweet,I thought the whole figs would be softer for spreading but they are not. You have figs laying in a very sweet syrup. I've only tried it on toast one time and it was way to sweet to eat. The figs just lay on top unspreadable. I would not buy again. Save your money.
,,,,,Good drink mix if you alter the directions a little.,"I have been to New Orleans at one of the Pat O Briens and had there hurricanes and this mix can taste just like what you would get at the restaurant.  The key is  that the mix  makes twice as much as it says it makes, so if you go by the directions it will takes powdery.  So either use half as much powder or twice as much water, mix with your favorite rum(what they use), vodka or gin and a nice sweet hurricane."
,,,,,Heavenly!,"This is the best quality Chamomile tea I have ever tried! This is only 1 oz. so it's a little pricey, but I will buy it again anyway, because the quality is out of this world. You will get three nice cups of tea out of one tablespoon, but the first one is the best, of course. I like mine strong. Chamomile fans will love this tea."
,,,,,great with lemons and Apriva,chamomile tea is great with lemons and Apriva. chamomile tea is caffeine free that's great for pregnant women and those with high blood pressure.
,,,,,"Berres Brothers Coffee Breakfast Blend (3Pkg, Ground)",Love this coffee.  Have bought this flavor and several others in the past.  Recommend it to everyone.  Will continue to buy it as long as I can afford to.<br />The French Vanilla is excellent as well!
,,,,,Snyder of Hanover Honey Mustard & Onion Pieces,"These are a great value, great size snack to have, or even share, great snack..... yummy.  Haven't tried other flavors, but just might have to."
,,,,,Not really 4 million scovilles,"This hot sauce has an excellent taste, unlike most of Dave's Insanity sauces. I put 6-10 drops into a bowl of mild chili to make it hot. Like the other reviewer, I'd put it at about 1 million SHUs. Having eaten fresh bhut jolokia (ghost) peppers which are supposed to be 1 million SHUs, I'd compare it to those.<br /><br />4 million SHUs would mean that the sauce is 25% pure capsaicin. That would make it prohibitively expensive to manufacture or consume."
,,,,,"Eh, it's ok.","The first ingredient is vinegar. Anyone who uses hot sauce religiously should understand what that means. I read the other reviews and was expecting a hell of a lot more than what I got. It's got a good flavor to it, but it's just a few steps above tabasco. From what the other reviewers described, it seems this product has a LOT of variability in heat, which means it's going to have a lot of variability in quality. The bottle I got is really tame, far, far below my Dave's Ghost Pepper, Dave's Ultimate Insanity, Blair's After Death, Da Bomb Beyond Insanity, Da Bomb Ground Zero, Professor Phardtpounder's Colon Cleanser, it's a lacking sauce. Hell, Sriracha is hotter than this. If you get lucky and get a hot bottle, congrats. I use mine liberally on cheap pizza, because that's all it's good for."
,,,,,"Not 4 Million, but still pretty hot.",Reaaaly hot stuff. Way hotter than Dave's Ultimate Insanity. Rivaled only by some of Blair's sauces. I don't think it is 4 million Scoville though..Maybe 1 million.
,,,,,the best taste,Listen if you want a good taste and hot. This the stuff! It won't melt your eyes out .but it is too hot to take straight . One dab will do ya on a bite of pizza!
,,,,,Good superhot with a bit of flavor - No where near 4 million,"A friend brought over a bottle as a gift and I loved it enough to hop on and write a review.<br /><br />I'm just arm chairing this, but I'd put it at somewhere in the range of 300K scovilles, or somewhere around half the heat of ""Pure cap"" or ""Mad dog 357 with bullet"". I tested the three side by side with a dab on the finger, dubious of the 4M claim. Maybe they mean it was made with 4 Million extract before diluted with the vinegar?<br /><br />The thing with all those superhots is that after a point it really doesn't matter. They don't have flavor, and you can always just add in a few extra drops. (I still appreciate the novelty!)<br /><br />Either way, it is aggressively priced, nice and hot, and unlike the other two sauces I've mentioned, has a bit of flavor from the peppers and vinegar besides being simply being 'spicy oil'. I like it!<br /><br />This is certainly going to become one of my regularly stocked hot sauces! It would go really well in a bit of soup, pasta, mashed potatoes, pizza, chicken wings, and so forth."
,,,,,Great Heat Level!!!!,"this hot sauce is great im new to the extreme heat sauces but i have previously tried fear sauce which has 1,100,000 scoville units and this sauce is by far alot hotter just two drops mixed with a little salsa on my taco had my mouth on fire its unlikely 4,000,000 scoville probaly more like 2,000,000 but i would  recommend this product"
,,,,,"4,000,000 is a lie","it is definatly not 4,000,000. half the heat of daves ghost sauce, maybe weaker. may be a good dipping sauce"
,,,,,great heat and great pour spout on top,"Not only does this sauce have a great taste. But they have a small enough pour spout on top to allow you to pour small drops on your food, if your careful, or pour a lot. It makes it easy to make something rather hot to, WheW,. What a heavy Burn ! I love this stuff. It's in a large 5 ounce bottle. And compared to sauces with less heat it has a great price. :)"
,,,,,More than 1 million scoville units/standard heat units (SHU),"I have tried Daves Ghost Pepper hot sauce back to back with Z's, and Z's is considerably hotter. I don't know if someone got a bad batch, but it's painful to use more than a drop per square inch of food the first couple times you try it, nice to mix with something you want hot without a vinegary taste. Makes anything spicy without changing the flavor, but has a good flavor if you really go overboard with it."
,,,,,nothing beyond hot sauce,HAs a good taste it is a lil hott not 2 bad maybe just a lil less hotter than blaires ultra death sauces but has a better flavor
,,,,,onion soup mix,really not much I can say abut this soup mix it taste great to us. we always bought the canned stuff when making pot roasts or whatever. then tried this well we will never go back to canned again. well worth the money will be buying more.
,,,,,Just Awesome!!,These things are seriously beyond delicious!! Just the right touch of saltiness to go with the sweet. A perfect dessert or cheat snack for those long work days :)
,,,,,The Brownie of My Dreams And It's Not Chocolate!,"I had no idea something could taste this good. I'm not really a caramel person, but if I had dreamed up the most perfect balance between sweet-salty-buttery richness it would be these Caramel Sea Salt Squares. I found them at Whole Foods and they are expensive, but worth every penny. Milk is the perfect compliment. Get some and you will not be disappointed. You may be ruined for chocolate brownies."
,,,,,AMAZING!!!!!,"Grilled out brats, chicken, and burgers for the entire family yesterday.  Covered all of it with Country Bob's seasoning and all purpose sauce!  The family loved it.  Best sauce available!!  Can't wait to use it on my steaks tonight!"
,,,,,Love this tea,I am very happy with this tea.  I hesitated to order because of price but it comes in a nice tin with 50 round tea bags.  It is great tasting.  I add ginger chips to it and it really is great when I have an upset stomach.  I just recently received my second order.
,,,,,good deal when cheaply priced...,i got it for under 7 dollars shipped...  i wouldnt pay more than eight because your not getting much cereal.
,,,,,A Great Cuppa Tea:),"The company has been around for over 160 years, is the company that started PG Tips and started and owned Red Rose tea so you know you're dealing with a quality tea company. The flavor is very similar to PG Tips to me; but stronger. It's definitely a milk and sugar or honey tea due to it's strength and you'll be happy that the milk doesn't 'water it down' in any way. With milk you'll still enjoy the full tea flavor; the milk only enhances the taste. It is a very strong tea, so be prepared for that. Otherwise it is a high quality, full flavored tea at an economical price. PG Tips is still my favorite but since I can't find it in my area but can find Brooke Bond Red Label at my local WalMart I'm a convert due to the quality and the very similar flavor to PG Tips...maybe it's just me, but I taste the similarity.  You won't regret trying this tea!"
,,,,,Grreat Tea,"My brother Robert that he has purchased this exact product in this size from local Indian grocers in Houston TX and in Austin Tx area, including one purchase at a WalMart store in an area with significant Indian populations.  The tea was reported to be a wonderful product for iced tea with a faint pleasant flowery aftertaste.  He will purchase it again and again"
,,,,,True Bacon Flavor,"These David's Signature Beyond Gourmet ""Bacon"" jelly beans do indeed taste like a very sweet and smokey piece of bacon. This is not flavor that I'm going to snack on, but would make a great gift for the many ""bacon fanatics"" out there. My wife commented that with a little vinegar flavor added in, they would taste like PA Dutch Bacon Dressing.<br /><br />This flavor is from David Klein, the creator of the famous ""Jelly Belly"" jelly beans, so I was thrilled to be offered this in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007JBO41E"">David's Signature Beyond Gourmet Jelly Beans Flavor Sampler</a> to review since my family loves jelly beans.<br /><br />I also really like that these jelly beans are made with natural flavors and colors.<br /><br />CFH"
,,,,,Not MY Favorite ... but they really taste like bacon,"If you are the kind of guy who really enjoys a huge slab of bacon with your breakfast, not that wimpy kind of stuff they serve at a restaurant, but the kind that hunters grab when they are together, thick, with lots of fat in the middle, you WILL enjoy these! You can almost feel your cholesterol count go up as you bite into them.<br /><br />Now I must admit I am a wimpy, crispy kind of gal, and I like my bacon on the lean side, in fact with my allergies I have to use Morningstar Soy bacon (don't cringe!). So when I bit into these, I realized from the very first bite I was NOT their intended audience.<br /><br />Nope, these are not ""girl food."" They are man food. If you want to carry a bag of these out to serve to your fishing or hunting buds early in the morning, this is the perfect selection for you. However, you might want to consider the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007JBLAMK"">David's Signature Beyond Gourmet Jelly Beans Man Mix</a> for a selection, or the milder and tamer <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007JBO41E"">David's Signature Beyond Gourmet Jelly Beans Flavor Sampler</a>. Both will give you a variety to try, just in case you don't like bacon as much as you think you do.<br /><br />I am grateful to have received samples of all of these from the company to try, and am basing my review on the samples which they sent. (Oh, I passed the rest of my bacon ones on to my guy buddies)."
,,,,,The best edible glitter,I bought two types of edible glitter to decorate a plain cake.  This one was by far the most stunning.  The other silver went on grey (not that appetizing) whereas this one had tonnes of sparkle and really made a statement.  Highly recommended.  Nice fast delivery too.
,,,,,wonderful,"I need every color that is available ! Love this product! ! Received shipment very fast! Very happy with this product, will buy more."
,,,,,"BUYER BEWARE, NOT EDIBLE!!!!","I ordered this glitter based on the fact it advertised it was edible.  I wouldn't even try to feed this to anyone let alone on a cake for children!  I read several reviews and they all said how fantastic it was so I purchased on good faith.  When it arrived I wanted to see if it had a taste...it tastes like I assume craft glitter would taste.  I packaged it to send it back but didn't. If you want a trust worthy edible glitter, stick with Wilton products."
,,,,,Super Glitery,"This stuff worked out great for my Disco Ball Birthday Cake.  My customer loved it! Check it out [...]<br />If you are looking for a great way to add that little extra something for your treats, you found it."
,,,,,Awesome product!!!!!!,I used this product on a cake topper for a wedding cake that I made. It worked out so well. Bride & groom were very happy and got non-stop compliments!!
,,,,,Disco fever ;),Simply wonderful! It adds that last little bit of WOW to your cake creations. I will be back for more!
,,,,,A little goes a long way!,Totally amazed at how far a small amount of this glitter can be spread. I bought 3 to decorate a wedding cake & used less than 1/2 of one! It was beautiful & worth the money.
,,,,,"Very tasty product, but please note one odd issue","This is a very tasty product.  This is my first time trying this, and I am glad I ordered it to see how it tastes.  As a product I'd order it again.<br /><br />One odd thing though that will cause me to lower this rating from 5 stars to 4 is that the listing here says a pound, but on the label 16 ounces is crossed out and 14 ounces is written next to it.  I didn't weigh the container to confirm this, but if it is 14 ounces, then then they need to update their listing to show such.<br /><br />Since I consider shipping to not be part of a product review I won't lower my star rating for this, and consider this to be just a mention of this then but the shipping was SLOW.  I ordered it on June 20th.  A USPS tracking/delivery confirmation number was generated on the 21st to be fair, but it took until July 5th for me to get this.  Even taking into account that there was a major holiday July 4th, that just seems too slow.  Everything was packaged well enough (although without anything like a ""blue ice"" pack to keep it cold for summer shipping...) but just took a long time to get here.  I do suspect the order wasn't truly shipped until the week before the July 4th weekend, despite a tracking number being generated on June 21st."
,,,,,DELICIOUS,This was a gift from my Lil Sis.  Awesome.  Great flavor.  Can taste berries and rhubarb.  I love it.  Most likely will order more.
,,,,,Smelled horrible and gave the dogs the runs,"If I could give this food a zero I would. I tried it out and the dogs loved it until they all had the runs for 2 days. It was horrible, smelled bad, and I would never get it again!"
,,,,,Vimto,"Vimto, love it. Fekkin expensive here though!<br />That's the problem with no longer living back in Blighty, stuff like Vimto becomes much more difficult to get."
,,,,,Great intro to spherification,"It's true you also need a decent scale (I used <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001OKR89G"">Jennings CJ300 300g X 0.1g Scale</a>).  I tried the Caviar Cointreau recipe [...] and everything worked perfectly on the first try (it's fast too - under 20 minutes & I'm sure faster once you get the hang of it).  It's fun & very easy to make (a juice recipe would be a really fun way to do an edible chemistry experiment with kids).  The kit comes with large enough samples that it looks like it'll be good for 40+ uses."
,,,,,As described but difficult to use,I bought the kit to dabble in spherification. The item is as-described and arrived on time. My complaint is that the instructions measure the required chemicals in fractions of grams. My kitchen scale measures as low as 1 gram but does not do fractions of grams. I cannot find a kitchen scale that measures fractions of grams. Therefore I find the kit difficult to use. I would not recommend the kit because it requires the purchase of specialized scale that can measure tenths of grams.
,,,,,Healthy and Safe,"Soon after one dog was diagnosed with renal failure (Yes, she ate all the foods on that recall list), my Westie became ill and couldn't hold any food. The vet did all sorts of tests, but I had to find something gentle enough for him to keep down. That night I met a rep from Nutro at my local Petco. She told me all about Natural Choice, gave me literature and a website to learn more. I purchased this canned food along with a small bag of the dry food to mix with it. Turns out the dog had some sort of virus, but the food was the only food he could keep down to regain his strength. Due to skin allergies known to Westies, I have kept him on this food and find it's the best for him.<br /><br />I just don't understand, though, how this is sold so cheap on Amazon thru Petco. It's $16.99/case in the store and $15.99 on their website.  I think they should keep the price regulated throughout."
,,,,,Needs more lemon flavor,"Not much of a lemon flavor for lemon cookies, more on the sweet side.  Coconut is listed in the ingredients, but you certainly won't taste it.  My son liked them, so they won't go to waste.  I would not buy them again."
,,,,,Cat LOVES this stuff.,"Now I know this formulation is not the most natural or high grade one on the market right now. Believe me, I have tried to get her interested in just about every brand with the word ""natural"" in the title, and she is not having it. She won't get the benefit of the food if she won't eat it. So when I noticed she was eating all of her food when I put this in front of her, I decided to stick with what is apparently working. This is still premium food, formulated for my twelve year-old's needs, and she really, really likes it. 'Nuff said."
,,,,,Cook up to be whole beans in a jiffy,"These are perfect if you want to add some beans to another soup, or just to have any size portion of black beans right away. As they are dried, they last forever, and you can have any portion size you want. With a little water and microwave, they perk up to give you really good quality black beans. I like these better than canned black beans, and I don't have any more at any time than I want. Adding them to soups which are too watery is a great way to thicken them up. You can't do that with canned beans which are mostly water in the first place. I haven't calculated the price out, but these are probably not any more expensive than canned beans because you aren't buying any water. Would be perfect for camping food as well."
,,,,,great new twist on old favorite,"I was born and raised on the east coast  Trenton - New Jersey ). I have loved Tasty-Kakes my whole life , so its a great present to find some mew flavors or twists on old familiar receipes."
,,,,,Dr Pepper,"I got this product for my husband beause he loves Dr Pepper. It came before the date it was suppose to arrive on. He loves it he wants to drink it but he doesnt, he is keeping it as a collertors item beause they dont make them anymore. The item was packed good and safe and everything was there. NO COMPLAINTS!"
,,,,,Dublin Dr. Pepper,Shipping was quite a bit but the bottles were all unbroken and in good shape. Since Dublin no longer makes D.P. I wanted some bottles for a keep sake. These meet the bill. Over all good experience.
,,,,,"Not ""Dublin"" Dr Pepper","This is the new ""Dublin"" dr pepper now bottled in Temple Texas.  This is produced after Dr. Pepper force Dublin out of production.  It is not the same as Dublin Dr. Pepper, that is why it is so cheap.  If you want the real thing, you'll pay more for it."
,,,,,GREAT COFFEE,"ESPECIALLY AS WE GET OLDER, THE LINING OF OUR STOMACH GETS MORE SENSITIVE TO HARSH CHEMICALS AND SUBSTANCES.  LOW ACID COFFEE IS A COMMON SENSE SUBSTITUTE THAT LOSES NO AROMA OR TASTE IN THE PROCESS.  HIGHLY RECOMMENDED."
,,,,,Awesome Taste but....,I received my 2 cases of Rice Works and the chips are awesome tasting and a great price BUT in every single bag (24) the chips were crunched/smashed into little pieces so i guess I have 24 bags of salad toppers or ..... but not chips.
,,,,,"Product delicious, but shipping lacking.","I was delighted to find this product online, because I cannot always find it in the stores.  However, each package I have opened thus far is at least half reduced to crumbs because of poor packaging for shipping.  I doubt that I will order more using this method."
,,,,,all right by me !!!,"These chips are some of the best I've had--ever! They're so good I dare say that they're addictive from the very first time you try a few. The taste of the salsa is delicious and the fresh chips go with lots of other foods.<br /><br />The main ingredient is whole grain brown rice; and yes, this is good for you. I haven't had regular potato chips in quite a while; but I would imagine that these chips have less fat then potato chips have. There are no trans fats, no cholesterol, no preservatives, no and artificial flavors. They are even wheat and gluten free! Very good! They have less than 1 gram of sugar per serving.<br /><br />They do have some sodium; they have about 200mg of sodium in every serving; and there are roughly five servings to a bag.<br /><br />If you have further questions, the company maintains a website and an email address so you can contact them. Good PR!<br /><br />Overall, these are some very awesome chips! I highly recommend them. Enjoy!"
,,,,,"Great Chips, bad shipping","I tried these chips on a whim while shopping at COSTCO. They stopped carrying the chips and I had to look elsewhere for these delicious snacks. No local store carried them, so I turned to Amazon.com in hopes of finding them. As soon as I discovered them on the list of foods carried by Amazon, I ordered a box.<br />When the box of chips arrived, I opened a bag of the  Riceworks Salasa Fresca chips, only to find not a single whole chip. The largest chip was no more than a quarter the size of a whole chip. It was impossible to use them to dip with. I hoped that was just an isolated bag of the product, but, most of the bags had similarly damaged chips. On average there were only a couple of whole chips to each bag.<br />It was very disappointing to have a great slasa style chip reduced to rubble during shipping. Because of the condition of the chips upon arrival, I will not buy them from Amazon.com again.<br />Great Chips when they are whole. A great disappointment when they are reduced to crumbled pieces."
,,,,,THESE ARE OKAY  PREFER SWEET CHILE ONES,I have tried all of the RICEWORKS chips except for the sesame soy which i plan to try soon i have a un-opened bag still so far prefer the sweet chile chips. These chips are pretty healthy as far as chips go made from brown rice and pop when chewed on. I bought them @Top Food's here in WASHINGTON State Costco has the larger 16oz BAG in the sweet chile flavor only. Price was $2.99 at Top Foods for 5.5oz size $2.88 on Amazon for same size.<br />Costco was $4.99 for the 16oz size...
,,,,,rice works chips,"These are the best tasting chips ever !  I can't get them anywhere here in Denver area so went to the internet to find them.  Wouldn't you know Amazon came thru !  Only concern is that they arrive a little crumbled---I guess understandable considering they're being shipped.  However, not so in store, when I could still get them here.  Really grateful that I can get them at all."
,,,,,great chips but terrible shipping,The chips are awesome.  I first bought them at Costco and now I cannot get them there any more.  The bags at Costco were about 3 times larger than the one I recieved from Amazon.  The arrived mostly in tiny crumbles of chips and the bags were about 1/3 full.  I won't waste my money buying them from Amazon again as the shipping is just not up to par.  If you can find the chips retail I would advise buying them that way.  Their website says that super target and Costco carries them but have not been able to find them there recently.
,,,,,Check for accurate weight in the bag.,"I am constantly looking for gluten free foods that I might enjoy for health reasons, I was excited to see these in my local store. Not only need you be concerned just with the MSG and soy protein, be aware of the weight in the packages. The bags purchased stated 5.5 oz. One seemed to be much lighter than the other. When I got them home, I put them in zip lock bags to check the contents. The bag that had seemed very light compared to the others was indeed less than a third of the amount in the other bags. It was no more than a very small handful. It did not contain crushed or broken chips, it contained very few chips. This is not the time for corporations who want to succeed and grow to cheat consumers! Is this a growing trend? I find it so."
,,,,,My fave GF chip!  Delicious!,"LOVE these chips.  I think there are so many GF baked goods (be they less than exciting rice chips, heavy breads, grainy cakes, etc.) that just fall short of taste and texture.  I am knocked out by how crisp and tasty these are!  They are much like a popular orange triangular chip but better, even ""fresher"" tasting.  If I don't take a serving and put the bag away first, I'm very likely to mow through it in one sitting.  Products like these make me feel like I'm not sacrificing anything at all for the sake of going GF."
,,,,,Salsa Fresca is the best,I LOVE these chips.  They are addictive...it's hard to just eat a few.  I tried the Chili flavor that has great reviews and I don't think they compare to the Salsa Fresca.  If you like a chip with a little kick...these are perfect.
,,,,,Riceworks Salsa Fresca Chips,"The chips are delicious!! I absolutely love them. They are very addicting. Excellent for people with gluten/wheat allergies. The only thing was that during the shipping process the chips became broken and crumbled, not as bad as I thought after reading other reviews but still quite a few crumbs in the bottom of the bags. I would order again."
,,,,,Chip with a great flavor (plus it's good for you),These are great chips.  I have tried both the Salsa Fresca and Sweet Chili and love them both (if I had to choose one over the other would take the Salsa Fresca - just my personal preference).  Will be trying the Sea Salt in the near future.<br /><br />Can't go wrong with these chips!
,,,,,Hard as a rock with about as much flavor,"These things are like eating poker chips with seasoning salt.  They're remarkably high in calories, too!"
,,,,,My Wife's Coffee,I make for my wife capuccinno in the mourning befor she goes to work.<br />And I use flavored coffee in the esspreso machine and it is hard to find<br />Hazelnut flavored ground coffee at a reasonable price or finding just flavored<br />beans. This 5pound bag from Coffee Bean Direct was an excellent price and<br />the flavor was very good also. A great choice for paople who grind their<br />own coffee beans.
,,,,,Basically a city roast with mild hazelnut flavor.,"This coffee tastes like a good cityroast coffee with a mild hazelnut flavor.  It's good.  I am a big fan of hazelnut, and I would like the flavor to be a little stronger.<br /><br />My husband loves the aroma of this one and he prefers it to the Boyer Hazelnut because it is a little darker roast than the Boyer."
,,,,,Great mild brew,"Smells great, looks great and tastes great.  As a guy who likes strong espresso type coffee, I was surprised and impressed by the bold flavor with just a hint of Hazelnut.  With just a little half and half its great first thing in the morning."
,,,,,Wonderful coffee beans,"My husband loves Hazelnut coffee but the price of flavored coffee is so high, I used to only give it to him once a week, but now I can afford to give him his favorite everyday! He loves the rich flavor!"
,,,,,Great coffee,I have been buying this coffee for at least 3 years and I love it. Smooth taste with a hint of hazelnut. Friends enjoy coming over just for a good cup of coffee.
,,,,,"VERY OK Price, OK Coffee","This is a nice ""middle."" It's a good-tasting roast coffee, with some hazelnut flavor. I'd say it is as good or better than the Wal-Mart Millstone hazelnut coffee. More of the hazelnut flavor is often too much for moi.<br /><br />It's not the best coffee I ever had, but it's just fine considering that it only costs about $6.25 / lb in the current market (Millstone is about $9).<br /><br />My only problem is what the product is -- 5 lbs. It's hard to keep that amount fresh, unless you are a restaurant. When a package is opened, I package the full 5 lbs in Wal-Mart (...) coffee bags, 1/2 lb per bag, then double-bag it into freezer bags, and pop that into the freezer. That way it stays fairly fresh, as defined by the aroma -- which is really nice when fresh, and less so when not"
,,,,,Excellent flavor for the price!,"Trying something new with this coffee. Didn't blow me away but for the price, it's excellent. I don't have anything bad to say about it other than it's a BIG bag and I am mildly concerned with freshness toward the end, but we burn thru beans pretty fast =D"
,,,,,Now thats some good coffee. Two thumbs up !,I have been so called a hazelnut coffee freak for about 10 years and I have to say that I finaly found the match to the hazelnut coffee my father in law offered me whenever I was over visiting. He has passed away so I can not say if it was from Coffee Bean Direct. But darn it. It sure taste just like what he brewed up. Thanks you for the good cup of coffee and at a reasonable price. I got this page book marked for later orders. TLA
,,,,,good stuff,This coffee is good. I have tried a lot of hazelnut coffees and this is one of the best I got from amazon. It has a darker and richer flavor than most hazelnut coffee. It was fresh and tasty and the price was great at about $6 per pound with subscribe and save. I will order it again
,,,,,Really Good Hazelnut Coffee,"Finally, an affordable flavored coffee worth drinking.<br />Coffee Bean Direct Hazelnut is a really smooth, medium roast coffee with a definite hazelnut flavor.<br />The flavoring is not sweetened, which is a real plus, especially if you don't like sweeteners in your coffee. (If you do, you have complete control yourself.)<br />The flavor is not overpowering, but is enough to let you know you are drinking a hazelnut coffee.<br />Those who have complained may have received a bad batch. Usually the blend is good and roasting consistant, but, as with any other food product, variations and accidents do happen.<br />I have been using Coffee Bean Direct coffee for about five years and have not yet received a bad batch.<br />This one is a winner."
,,,,,Finally found the BEST in HAZELNUT  THRILLED with flavor,"Since Folgers discontinued their Hazelnut I have tried atleast 10 different brands.. FINALLY THE BEST....This coffee is the best Hazelnut Whole bean we have found in years. Love the taste, the Smoothness,,,IT IS WONDERFUL..Finally AMAZON found a good one....We put this on REGULAR SHIPMENTS DO NOT WANT TO LOSE THEM... Thrilled with the taste.  THANK YOU AMAZON....Tried so  many my Husband and I love it and will follow them where ever they will go.<br /><br />MJ Wood<br /><br />Because of Amazon and it's FAST SHIPPING and REGULAR MONTHLY PROGRAM WE WILL BUY MORE GROCERY PRODUCTS FROM THEM.  IT IS EASY, FAST AND CHEAPER THAN THE STORE.<br /><br />Now looking for more products that save us a trip to the store...THANK YOU AMAZON you make it easier for us.<br /><br />I remember years ago when my Grandmother would call the Grocery store give them a list and they delivered it to her home...NOW I HAVE AMAZON to help us in our SENIOR YEARS.....<br /><br />GREAT PROGRAM FOR SENIORS OR BUSY PEOPLE.  RELIABLE, MONEY SAVING and great quality.<br /><br />Only Problem I had was with Chrystal Light i ordered was hard as a rock like it had been in warehouse for years.....<br /><br />MJ WOOD"
,,,,,Delicious,"Before I say anything else, I am mindful of differing tastes, as well as differences in processing from one batch of coffee to another. That said, I found the Coffee Bean Direct Hazelnut coffee to be evenly roasted (medium) and bearing a robust and rich hazelnut flavor from the first to the last cup. Since this is my first bag of hazelnut coffee from CBD, with which I am very pleased, I will update my comments, specifically addressing the consistency of the roasting/flavoring process from batch to batch with my next purchase. If my other CBD purchases are any indication, I anticipate a consistent product."
,,,,,Awful,"The only other flavored coffee I've used was Nestle Hazelnut. It too was a 5# whole bean.  I really enjoyed that one and thought I pick this one up.<br /><br />Where the Nestle's shared flavor with the bean this one overpowers.  This one has a burnt note that seems flavoring instead of roast related. I like hazelnuts and this a isn't anything like hazelnut<br /><br />Now I have 5# of the stuff.  My mistake!<br /><br />More Info:<br />I am about 3/4 of the way through the bag.  My opinion has not changed.  Also, I would note a very inconsistent flavor.  Today's grind seems almost devoid of the flavoring.  It appears they really don't have the adding of flavoring down.  The intensity of the flavoring is all over the park."
,,,,,very lightly roasted,"This is not a deeply roasted or rich tasting coffee at all.  It's very light, with unevenly sized beans -- clearly a blend.  Some beans are normal size and some are tiny.  The hazelnut aroma and flavor is good, but this coffee is not strong at all -- even using twice as many grounds, I could not get enough coffee flavor from these beans.<br /><br />People who like very weak coffee will probably love this.  People who like Starbucks will not like this one bit."
,,,,,Flavorful brew with aromatic notes.,"Anyone who knows Yaucono will like the ""new"" packaging of mylar-laminated plastic.  I wonder how long they packaged in layers of paper?<br /><br />If you have not had this very rich Puerto Rican coffee, you must sample it and then buy in bulk.  Juan Valdez might have a good bean, but the Puerto Ricans do it better."
,,,,,AWESOME!,I love this coffee. I tried it in Puerto Rico on our honeymoon and am hooked! I may even go back to Puerto Rico and get more!
,,,,,heavy duty!,"This is a hefty roll of mylar! The 50"" width allows more coverage, obviously, but the 1 ml thickness is what's really nice.  It's not flimsy!"
,,,,,Moist but bland,"This cake always turns out consistently sweet and moist, but bland.  Compared to the new deluxe Duncan Hines version of German Chocolate cake, this is not impressive.  It will do when you're craving something different from regular chocolate cake, though."
,,,,,Creme of the crop!,This Creme Brulee is as good as any homemade! Why bother with homemade when you can get just as delicious from a box! Easier to make too!
,,,,,Always the Best,Oetker products are always the best. I've used them for years because they have unique items that are tasty and easy to prepare. You absolutly cannot go wrong with this Creme Brulee. Why spend a ton of money at a restaurant when you can serve it by candlelight at home?
,,,,,Excellent!,This Creme Brulee is better than some of the better French restaurants I've been to. I just wish my local grocery stores would carry it!
,,,,,This does not taste at all like Wild Bill's,"It tastes like Jack Links brand, not Wild Bill's.  Even the texture is totally different from Wild Bill's.  Not recommended!"
,,,,,will not but again,"I blame myself for trying to save a buck - this coffee is way too weak for my tastebuds - they say it's a dark blend but it's not even close to a dark roast I buy at stores.  In the end, I have blend each can with a pound of dark roast and it's OK."
,,,,,Organic but not tasty!,"If you like a rich dark coffee, this product is NOT for you!  We'd been looking for an organic alternative, and I've tried some great ones, so we ordered this when it was on special.  Unfortunately, we ordered 6 cans to get the discount, and now we are stuck with organic, but very dull tasting coffee.  To make the best of it, we've bought other tried and true rich dark brands to mix with it.  Very disappointing!"
,,,,,Okay,I bought this along with the regular dark roast at a considerable discounted price.  Well lets just say you get what you pay for.  The flavor really is not there and this as well is not much of a dark roast.
,,,,,delicious coffee,We use this coffee at my office. People like it a lot and I feel good about it being organic and fair trade.
,,,,,"Great coffee, and Fair Trade, too","Organic, fair trade, Cafe Altura Coffee brews a great pot of coffee. 'Organic' makes it healthy, and 'fair trade' makes it a responsible choice. The Dark Blend is a flavorful choice."
,,,,,decent but not great,"I prefer rich, strong coffee and this product is a bit bland for my taste"
,,,,,Good coffee!,"We like dark roast coffee because it has more body and tastes stronger.  This coffee is just that!  It's great that it's both organic and fair trade.  The 3-pack means you have coffee for a while, and the price is very good.  You can either recycle the can, or repurpose it around the house.  All-in-all, a very good deal!"
,,,,,Good stuff,"Nice body and full roasted flavor at a reasonable price for a organic ""fair trade"".  I'd buy the discounted pack again, but full price cost it too much to overcome my desire for an affordable coffee."
,,,,,Brachs Manderin Orange Slices,I ordered this for my Mother-in-law who could not find this product anywhere near where she lives.  She is really enjoying this product.
,,,,,Very fresh and tasty,Very fresh and tasty SOFT buns that go well with my Omaha steak burger patties.<br />They store well.
,,,,,Eh.,"Chewy Lemonhead and Friends are my favorite candy. Period. I love them...so much.<br />...(cough)<br />So when I found these I was really excited and bought a pack hoping they'd have that same tartness that makes Lemonhead and Friends so good!<br />Nope. Tasted just like every other jelly-gummy type candy. I was very let down. It was okay for jelly/gummy, but don't expect much."
,,,,,So good I eat it straight from the jar!,"I haven't ordered this item YET, so I can't speak to the customer service angle.  However, I have purchased this product at a local specialty food store that sadly no longer carries it and I must say it's one of the five greatest things I have ever put in my mouth.  It's so great I have literally eaten it straight from the jar! If you've never had lingonberries, they are crimson red, roughly the sized of blueberries, and taste a lot like sweetened cranberries, only better.  They don't have the acrid taste that cranberries sometimes have, but I will say that if you dislike cranberries, this may not be your favorite thing.<br /><br />Of all the lingonberry products I've tried - jams and preserves - the Fellix Preserves are my very favorite.  The berries are whole or in halves, the color is true and the fluid part is completely smooth, rich and has a dense texture.  The flavor is strong enough to stand up to the density and full flavor of a biscuit, but it's also great on bagels or english muffins or toast.  And although I haven't tried doing it, I've heard this is a great product to use in baking - this would be great in a berry muffin, or as a complement to game dishes.<br /><br />I highly recommend this!"
,,,,,Nice Swedish Treat!,"All of my family members are fans of fruit jams, jellies, and preserves because they are versatile food products that any person of any age can consume. These food products are also friendly for people with TMJ/jaw problems as well. When I tried Hafi's Cloudberries Preserves from Sweden, I decided to try Felix's Lingonberries Preserves, too. Like the other Amazon reviewer said, if you like the taste of cranberries, then you'll probably like this lingonberries preserve. This lingonberries jam has berries in it and looks beautiful as you spread the preserves on pancakes and soft bread. It's the color red, and kind of reminds me of cranberries, the taste and look of them, especially cranberry dressing and salads during American Thanksgiving meals. Swedish lingonberries are very sweet and tart. My recommendation is to buy both Hafi's Cloudberry Preserves and Felix's Lingonberries Preserves for your household and when you're entertaining guests. Why? - because each person has different tastes, and Swedish cloudberry preserves is more mild with less tartness, and would accomodate the people who wouldn't appreciate the tartness of Swedish lingonberries. If you have both Swedish cloudberry and Swedish lingonberry preserves, then you would cover all your bases in terms of pleasing every family member and guest. When it comes to eating this jam straight from the spoon, personally for me, it is really tart, tangy, and a little strong. While with cloudberry preserves, I could probably eat the whole jar without tasting or sensing a strong tartness. Personally for me, this lingonberries preserves tastes great with vanilla yogurt; it reminds me of Yoplait's fruit in the bottom yogurts. According to Felix, on their jar, they say that these lingonberries ripen during summertime in northern Sweden. The ingredients in these preserves are: wild lingonberries, sugar, and fruit pectin. Felix also suggest putting these preserves on meat. I ordered these jars from the seller on Amazon, and they did a good job wrapping and taping bubble wrap to protect each jar from breaking during transport. Anyways, I highly recommend trying Swedish lingonberries and Swedish cloudberries preserves. Both of these Swedish treats offer different tastes that are yummy and good!"
,,,,,excelent preserve,"very excelent quality preserve lingonberry,,i will order it again,,but the shipment pack should be covered better with strong materials,,thank u for the great felix lingonberry"
,,,,,Family Favorite,"I can't imagine why but it seems that grocery stores have stopped stocking this item. If you haven't tried it you must, it is the best coating mix available and my family keeps asking me to make chicken only with this shake and bake. It has a very different flavor than any BBQ sauce on the market, a flavor all it's own that is really delicious and goes with any side dish. I have made stuffing, mashed potatoes (a favorite) and almost any vegetable to go with it and everyone always has a second helping of chicken.It's perfect for company because it is unique and tastes like something you would cook for a special occasion. I am always afraid that they will stop making it, it really has become a staple in our home and even the most finicky people love it, kids all seem to love it and I love it because it is quick and easy. It's a very unique flavor, I want to say a little sweeter than most BBQ sauces or flavorings but not really sweet , kind of like a honey BBQ but better, that can be used on pork chops as well. There is a plastic bag enclosed to shake it in but I find that more of the mix sticks to the sides and it is very hard to coat the chicken , a lot of wasted mix that way. I put it on a plate a little at a time and add as needed, then I rinse the chicken pieces and kind of lightly roll them on the plate in the coating (shaking a little out of the packet on spots that are not coated) and then place them into a baking pan that I line with foil, it makes clean up much easier after cooking, almost don't need to wash the pan this way.Try to get all the pieces covered especially on the tops because the bottom will come off a little bit from the grease that cooks out of the chicken. Any mix left in the packet I shake on pieces that don't look completely covered and then just on top of all of them. I usually get a package of about 3 or 4 half breasts and a package of 6 thighs and one pack of mix will cover it all if you roll it on a plate. It becomes very sticky when it gets wet so it will stick to the plate, your fingers and of course the chicken pieces. I have also used a little bit of plum jam brushed on the chicken before coating it and thats very good too, but honestly you don't need to add anything it is delicious the way it is. Cook it long enough to get browned and crispy and remove it to a serving dish right away so it doesn't sit in the grease and you will be extremely happy with the results. I would really be interested to hear from someone who has never cooked with this before and see what they think."
,,,,,Bbq wings,Have you ever try bbq chicken wings?<br />Use this glase and it would be delicious.<br />I used it a lot but usually bought it in super market. today I didn't find it there so I came online and order more here price is much better here.
,,,,,Awesome!,For some reason they stopped selling this in stores in Fort Worth.  This is my favorite for chicken.
,,,,,Shake and Bake BBQ Glaze Coating Mix,I HAD USED AND COME TO LOVE THIS PRODUCT AND SUDDENLY COULD NOT FIND IT IN STORES NEAR ME. I CAME TO AMAZON AND THERE IT WAS! I COULD NOT GET MY CARD OUT QUICK ENOUGH! I SHARE WITH MY DAUGHTER WHO ALSO CAN'T FIND THIS ITEM LOCALLY.<br />THANKS AMAZON!!!!
,,,,,Can't find it in stores,This is the best coating/glaze to help make BBQ Chicken. I never can find it is the stores so I always buy it here and it is so much cheaper then a store. I pour it in a pie pan roll the chicken in it then bake. After I roll all the chicken I put the remaining glaze in a Zip Lock gallon bag and place in the freezer till the next time. Sometimes I mix the glaze with plain Chicken Shake n Bake for a crunchy BBQ coating.
,,,,,great taste,This BBQ Glaze Shake'N'Bake is great for other meats besides chicken and pork.<br />They made great Christmas gifts for grandchildren in college.
,,,,,Shake N Bake Barbeque Chicken is the absolute BEST!!!!,We live in Tucson AZ and all of a sudden we can't find this one product anywhere in Tucson. I makes the chicken so juicy and tender and the flavor is beyond compare. So happy to be able to purchase some and looking forward to buying more!!!!
,,,,,They stopped selling this in my local store but amazon saves the day,They stopped selling this at Walmart which made me sad but then I found it on amazon which made me glad. You have to buy in bulk but (going by the ones that I received) they don't expire for over a year so as long as you store it correctly you should be able to buy in bulk even if it's a small household like mine.
,,,,,available when hard to find,this item is so hard to find. i was so thrilled to find i could buy more than just one at a time.
,,,,,Encouragement.....YES,"Delicious, easy and quick!  Kraft Shake 'N Bake BBQ Glaze for chicken and pork.<br /><br />Kraft BBQ Shake 'N Bake is a great option to ""traditional"" BBQ recipes and brimming with flavor.  Perfect for company, everyday family meals, or a solitudinarian.  :)<br /><br />May I suggest:  BBQ Shake 'N Bake chicken, cream potatoes, steamed broccoli, and a lettuce wedge salad.  You'll have a great meal in under an hour.<br /><br />  <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0005ZYN4O"">Kraft Shake 'N Bake Seasoned Coating Mix Barbecue Glaze 2 Pack with Shaker Bag - 8 Pack</a><br /><br />Buy it now  :)"
,,,,,Hard to find item delivered fast,"I had not been able to find Kraft Shake 'n Bake at the two (2)grocery stores where I shop.I was so glad to find this product available through Amazon.com. It was easy to order and was delivered very quickly. Great service.<br /><br />Thanks,<br />Laura W.<br />Phoenix AZ"
,,,,,Love this product,For whatever reason the only 2 grocery stores where I live no longer carry this product. It is my husbands absolute favorite. I am so glad I am still able to buy this product on line.
,,,,,just like old times!,"I remember the old days of having shake and bake BBQ ( I had a mother that was raising 5 girls alone). Chicken and the S & B were cheap to buy in these days and we ate it a lot.<br /><br />I never thought those memories could be recreated through smell and taste again, but oh My godness it was!!<br />It is just a delicious as I remember it being as a kid. I bought a case of 8 and have 6 more left. I don't know why the stores don't have this in stock...one clerk said its the msg in it. Well people should be able to make there choices of buying it or not buying it.<br />I am still amazed at the granular style it is and how it ends up this red sticky delicious old style bbq sauce that sticks to it like glue.<br />It is so gooood!! I highly recommend buying it and it would probably be good on ribs too!!<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000E1HVW0"">Shake 'N Bake Seasoned Coating Mix, BBQ Glaze, 7-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 8)</a>"
,,,,,a very definite five stars!,"Welcome to heaven, Judy.<br />What?<br />Yes, you have arrived.<br />What?<br />You are asleep now, thanks to Celestial Seasonings Sleepytime tea.<br />But I don't remember going to sleep.<br />My point exactly. That's why I call it heaven.<br />But who are you?<br />I am Sleepytime Judy and I am asleep.<br /><br />What welcome relief, knowing there is a pleasant, calming antidote to the stresses of a relentlessly busy mind that sometimes refuses to shut down. Just walk to the kitchen, put the kettle on, pull out a Celestial Seasonings Sleepytime teabag, place in a favorite cup--mine is a slender version of a Blue Willow cup, pour on water at just the boiling point, and wait for the tea to steep.<br /><br />Meanwhile, pick up the box--how many times now--and read the the words.<br />""100% Natural Herb Tea, Caffeine Free.""<br />""a comforting blend of chamomile and spearmint creates a lullaby of tender flavor to soothe your senses...""<br />""...it lets you curl up under a quilt of flavor and quiet the tensions of your world...""<br />'The sweetest way I think of you is when the day is done.' Emily Dickinson<br />Ingredients: Chamomile, spearmint, lemon grass, tilia flowers, blackberry leaves, orange blossoms, hawthorn berries, and rosebuds.<br /><br />But before I take my cup back to bed, I look at the last panel of the box. There's papa bear asleep in his cozy chair in front of the fire, Mama is carrying the baby and holding the hand of another, taking them to bed. Through an open door one can see two little bears already asleep in their bed. All in all, a cozy room of happiness and warmth and the promise of sleep.<br /><br />I sip my cup of Sleepytime tea quickly, almost gulping. I have learned that if I sip my usual slow sipping, I will fall asleep only halfway finished. That is how efficacious the tea... really... is....."
,,,,,The classic!,"Sleepytime is a popular tea that has been around a long time due to its high quality. The natural flavors and ingredients have made it a required tea for the cupboard of persons interested in healthy eating for the last 30 years! The predominant flavors are of chamomile and spearmint--but the additional ingredients--including rose buds--create a satisfying, complex blend that is very tasty and soothing. Not only is Sleepytime caffeine-free but it contains herbs that are mildly relaxing and healing for the stomach. Drink this lovely tea before bed either with or without honey.<br /><br />Sleepytime contains chamomile, spearmint, lemongrass, tilia flowers, blackberry leaves, orange blossoms, hawthorne berries and rosebuds. The healing qualities of some the herbs in Sleepytime are listed below, however please note that there is insufficient quantities of each herb to have anything more than a very mild effect. Blackberry leaves, which are soothing to the stomach, contain tannins which provides a tea-like base for the flowery flavors of chamomile and rosebuds. Spearmint is one of the milder mints and is also useful to soothe tummy ache. Chamomile is a wonderful herb that has a relaxing effect; it also can be used to soothe tummy aches, headache, menstrual cramps and is a mild anti-fungal.<br /><br />Celestial Seasonings gets extra points for their packaging: they utilize 100% natural recycled paperboard in their boxes and they don't package each tea bag individually. Instead they use a system of a waxed paper bag inside the box that stays shut when you fold it. It keeps the bags fresh and utilizes less packaging than individually wrapping each bag. The art they use on each box is beautiful as are the quotes and information they put on every surface.<br /><br />Quote from the box:<br /><br />""Ultimately, the bond of all companionship, whether in marriage or friendship, is conversation."" Oscar Wilde."
,,,,,"Soothing, calming, allows you to relax and rest.","Tea has a great flavor - almost what I'd call 'spearmint' flavor which is great with honey or sugar with or without cream. I drink it hot and if it does cool, it's still good.  It does help me relax and go to sleep when I've had a long day.  My grandchildren love the flavor and we often share a pot of tea as it is perfectly safe for them.  Celestial Seasoning Teas are great teas always but Sleepytime is one of their classics! I'd recommend this tea to anyone, as out of all of Celestial Seasonings teas, this is probably ranks as close to number one on my list of favorites.  And I do have a lot of their tea in my pantry -- my son swears I must own stock in it, LOL.  If you like tea, try it, I really think you'll be glad you did as I feel Sleepytime truly is one of their best teas. :)"
,,,,,Tradition,at it's best.  I have been drinking this tea since high school and the flavor has not wavered.  I've tried plain chamomile and it didn't make the cut. Nothing beats a cup or two of Sleepy Time before bed as it calms the nerves and settles the tummy.  What a perfect way to drift off into slumber !
,,,,,My Absolute FAVORITE Evening Tea!!!,Just 1 cup in the evening caps off my day and gets me relaxed and is a permanent part of my bedtime prep.  This CS Sleepytime Tea is my absolute FAVORITE evening tea ritual!  I think it is the wonderful flavor of camomile plus the spearmint that adds that extra something refreshing...ahhhh...(sigh)...big yawn...I'm toddling off to sleep now........  P.S.  I also love a cup anytime I'm feeling somewhat stressed and especially whenever I need to wind down like after a long time on the computer or after stressful shopping trips.  Take a cup and you'll really be in a mellow place.
,,,,,Great price on a  great tea!,"Tea's are very personal and everyone has their favorites. I really enjoy this tea when relaxing, or before bed. The subtle mint flavor seems to comfort and sooth. A little sugar (I'm not a fan of honey) really makes all the flavors POP! Being a fan of this tea it was a no brainer to order it in bulk, the price at the time was great, cheaper then the grocery store (by far). The packaging was efficient and made it really easy to store."
,,,,,Bedtime Ritual,"I love Sleepytime tea at night while I'm laying in bed reading a book, winding down for sleep. It has a fresh, comforting flavor, and a really great scent. It is a main part of my relaxing bedtime ritual, and I make use of Amazon's automatic re-ordering program, which saves me So Much money compared to grocery store prices. I only gave 4 stars because after about a week of drinking it every night it kind of loses it's charm. That's when I alternate it with Celestial's Tension Tamer, just to keep things interesting. Great product for herbal tea lovers, and again, a much better price here than in the grocery stores."
,,,,,Nice tea,"I love Sleepy Time tea, I used to give it to my children, since it is caffeine free, as they grew up, it helped them warm up and fall asleep quickly.<br /><br />Just a little story and a small cup of warm tea, that was the routine especially in the winter. They are all grown now but I find that they are now serving it to my grand children and it is having the save effect.<br /><br />I still drink it between all the other teas I enjoy but this one is just a little more special."
,,,,,A Favorite Year after Year,We make most of our tea from loose leaf in a press pot. Sleepytime is the lone exception. We've been drinking this tea for many years now and it still rates among our very favorites. It's the perfect blend of camomile and mint. And you gotta love the bear.
,,,,,Nite Nite...,Have used this herbal tea for sometime now...one cup before bedtime and it always helps me rest better.  Love the discount for ordering the six months supply.
,,,,,Very good bedtime tea or tea for car or motion sickness!,"I have been purchasing and drinking this tea for years.In fact since Mo Siegel used to advertise it on TV..now that is a long time ago. It really helps calm frazzled adults as well as hyper children before bed. But what is more share worthy is the fact that it is a great tea for children that suffer from motion sickness.<br /> Our oldest daughter used to be car sick all the time. We carried an endless supply of ""baggies"" for her as she would 8 out of 10 times relieve herself when commuting back and forth to school.<br /> We discovered that this tea, given 20 minutes before the ride and every hour or so on long family trips curtailed her horrid events completely. The main ingredient is chamomile and it really helps relieve motion sickness and soothe frazzled nerves."
,,,,,great value,"when ordering in bulk with the repeat shipping option, this tasty tea is a great value"
,,,,,Flawless herbal tea,"Sleepytime tea is one of those teas that can always be counted on. It's very mellow, with a great taste and smell. Perfect for relaxing after a long day. This is the tea that all other herbal teas should be measured against."
,,,,,Perfect for the Evening,"Valerian and Chamomile are blended with spearmint leaves, lemon grass, hawthorn berries and orange blossoms to create a delicious tea to savor late at night before you drift off into dreams. This tea is much more effective than regular Sleepytime and I can say this because my sleep cycle has been fairly regular with much fewer nights of tossing and turning. You may also find that your mood the next day is rather mild and you feel more relaxed in general. This could be due to getting a good night's sleep for a change or it could be that the valerian has a lasting effect. Valerian is a very effective herb if you can't get to sleep and this tea is highly recommended for insomnia. Unlike sleeping pills, you won't feel groggy the next morning. Blend in a little lavender or orange blossom honey to enhance this deliciously mild minty tea.<br /><br />~The Rebecca Review"
,,,,,"Wow, Im Addicted...But It's Great","What a wonderful product!<br />I can drink it all times of the day, so obviously the original Sleepytime Tea causes no real drowsiness.<br /><br />I start my day with the tea and end it with the tea.<br />It makes me so relaxed and it's healthier then smoking..lol<br /><br />It's also made me a fan of sugarless tea.<br />Never again will I go back to sweet tea or terriable diet sodas!<br /><br />Try some Sleepytime Tea if you love tea! The flavor is amazing and very smooth as well as unique. It's great hot or cold!<br />You will not be dissappointed."
,,,,,awesome  corn cake,This product is so great.  My daughter who is extremely pick loves it and she is also gluten free!!  so she can actually have this!!!!!<br />Not bad for 100 calories per serving!!!!!<br />This will be a great dish to take for Thanksgiving dinner.
,,,,,yummy treat,"I like to make this when I make chicken fajitas or dirty rice, it is a nice compliment and does not dry out as much as Jiffy's corn muffin mix (which I used to use). This packet, water, half a stick of butter and a can of creamed corn is all it takes, then bake for 45 minutes. It is moist and sweet, it does not last long in my house!"
,,,,,Chi-Chi,"Easy and delicious!  Have made it in a 9x5"" loaf pan as well as in a mini-muffin pan;  both methods yield a great-tasting product."
,,,,,Love this stuff!!!,I make this product when we have any kind of Tex-Mex meal.  Everyone loves it.  It is easy to make and tastes great.
,,,,,mmmmmm.....good,"Seems stange that any item this good and tasty would disappear from stock iun the stores.  So glad  to find it on Amazon...and at the rate we eat this - especially in the winter with chili, won't have any problem going thru the bulk order of 12 pkgs...<br />Thank you Amazon and Chi-Chi's!"
,,,,,outstanding!!!,I had a taco party and almsot every single guest asked me How do I make the Corncake?.  I run out every year.
,,,,,Fiesta Sweet Corn Cake,This little packet makes a whole pan full of sweet corn goodness.  Is it a side dish or a dessert or both?  You decide.  Easy to prepare and delicious on the table.
,,,,,Love corn cake,"I love chi chi's corn cake and I love that I can purchase it from Amazon. My local grocery store stopped carrying it and I was so happy to see that I could order it from Amazon. I would give it 5 stars but not everyone in my family loves it. (I don't know why, it is so yummy) It is a delicious side to any mexican meal!"
,,,,,"Tasty, Unique Treat","I grew up in Southern California, so I've had my share of sweet corn cakes at local restaurants. This mix is a great way to make these at home. I prepared a package of these for a friend of mine (who lives on the east coast and had never tried a corn cake)....she's now addicted but can't find them at her local store. Thank goodness for Amazon!"
,,,,,Outstanding flavor,"I have tried to duplicate this without having to buy the prepackaged stuff, but have never come close. The stuff this creates is outstanding in texture and flavor. I have always like the little dollop of corn yumminess that they sell at the Tex Mex chain Chevy's and this is almost a spot on replication of it. Great stuff for even picky eaters like young kids."
,,,,,This is some GOOOOOD stuff!,"I made the recipe on the package and my family LOVED this dish. I will make it many, many times. My grandson said he wanted a whole dishful just for himself!"
,,,,,First Ingredient is sugar...dessert for sure!,"I had never made this or had it at a mexican food diner, so I did not know what to expect.  It is good and very moist, but if you use creamed corn with added sugar in it your muffins or corn loaf will be very sweet.  I will make my own cream corn to add next time instead of using Libby's canned cream corn which is high in salt and sugar.  I like sweets but this was a little over the top using canned cream corn. The first ingredient in the dry mix is sugar, not Corn Masa as listed on the Amazon site so be advised this is definitely a dessert."
,,,,,amazingly delicious!,sooo happy amazon sells this! the one grocery store that has it in my neighborhood is closing!!!! this is delicious!!! perfect for a fiesta night!
,,,,,Yum.,Delicious.  Reminds me exactly of the corn cake they use to serve at their restaurants.  I make this with every mexican night we have at home.
,,,,,Makes bringing a side dish a little easier,"I've got no talent in the kitchen but in today's economy hosts really appreciate guests who contribute to the atmosphere by bringing a side dish.  I'd sampled this corn cake at a friends and couldn't believe it came from a mix.  I immediately ordered the mix from Amazon and put it to the test. So easy (water, melted butter and a cake pan) even I couldn't mess it up!! I took it to the next gathering where it was a hit.  I only wish it came in a smaller shipment (min. shipment is a pack of 12) but since everyone always seems to want the recipe, we can share."
,,,,,I Love it Too!!!,I too am so glad Amazon sells this!!  I sometimes add a 1/4 cup of sugar when I want it sweeter:)
,,,,,chi chi's corn mix,"All the Chi Chi's closed in my area.  I was able to get this mix at the grocery store, but lately it has not been on the shelves. I am so happy to have found it on Amazon.  This mix is awesome.  Great for taco night!!!"
,,,,,A must have for our annual houseboat trip,"Our daughter was very unhappy because she could not find Chi-Chi's Sweet Corn Cake Mix in her grocery stores.  Thanks to Amazon.com the ""fix"" was easy.  We had Corn Cake while dining on Lake Powell.  Heard the grand kids were enjoying more Chi-Chi's Corn Cake last night.  Thank you!  SR"
,,,,,Really good & gluten free,"I really like this product---when my grocery stopped carrying it, I ordered it through the mail.  This is more of a quick bread than a cake, and it requires a can of cream style corn.  The result is very moist and has a good corn flavor.  I bake it in muffin pans in cupcake papers, and a dozen are small.  It makes about 8 good sized muffins.  I also bake these longer than specified on the package, because I seem to like things that are more done than many people.  These store well in a plastic bag in the refrigerator---if they are not all eaten by the end of the meal."
,,,,,Love this stuff...,"Chi-Chi's sweet corn cake is awesome.  The stores in our area stopped stocking this item.  SO HAPPY to have found it on Amazon.com.  No other corn bread/cake mix comes close to being as good as this.  It goes great with taco's, nacho's and chili.  We also like to add in some frozen corn before we bake it.  YUM!!!!"
,,,,,thought it would be better,so so.there was great reviews on product only made it once will try it again
,,,,,Great for lunch!,"I've been a fan of this stuff for years.  Make sure you stir it up after you pull it out of the microwave since the grease seems to float to the top.  It is quick, easy, and makes for a tasty lunch when you are short on time or don't feel like going out for lunch."
,,,,,Junk Food @ It's Best..........,"It isn't healthy, despite the description above, though I did not buy it for that reason. I love pasta, but for my uses preparing a fresh batch, then adding the sauce would be both expensive, and time consuming. This is the best solution. I will buy this variety again in the future, in the can version, for more days."
,,,,,Beefaroni mostly macaroni,"I'm recently widowed so have to learn to fix for a single person. I hoped this microwaveable bowl of ""Beefaroni"" would provide a tasty lunch. To my surprise, I found that it was nearly all macaroni, with some tomato sauce and a very small amount of beef. The taste was OK if you like macaroni and a rather strong tomato sauce, but I expected more beef. Also, as with so many canned food these days, be prepared for a high dose of sodium -- salt, that is -- 31% of average daily requirement in one small serving. Overall, no so good."
,,,,,Mmmmm...,Great for a snack (I eat a 2500 calorie/day diet)... I eat this between lunch and work and it hits the spot.  An entire bowl is 400 calories.  Arrived on time and its easier and cheaper than buying in bulk at ACME or other such (not costco but i dont have my own member card)
,,,,,Unimpressed,"When the flowers showed up, they were in pretty bad shape.  I figured that water and the provided plant food would spruce them up within a few days.  Didn't happen.  They went from being dull and wilted to being dead within four days of arrival."
,,,,,sees candies,i received the box of chocolate and was very pleased . the box was in excellent shape and was wrapped well. the candies were fresh and delicious. would get again.
,,,,,A wonderful gift!!,"This 2 lb box of chocolates was a wonderful gift for my 20 year old niece!  The quality of the chocolates was amazing, but more importantly was the long lasting pleasure the young lady got.  A double gift!  Thanks Amazon!<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0042GWKWO"">See's Candies 2 lb. Assorted Chocolates</a>"
,,,,,Don't order these in the summer!,"Speaking as another Texan, I think the first rule for these delicious treats is to NOT order them during spring or summer. In fact, your safest bet is to ONLY order them in the dead of winter.  LOL!  As long as you do that, be prepared for a truly amazing treat!  This package comes with 12 bite-sized delicacies.  The chocolate is high-quality, the nuts are crunchy, and the overall taste couldn't be better.  Definitely worth the price!"
,,,,,EAT WITH CAUTION!,"i cannot believe that i found these on amazon!!!!  i became addicted to the little, choclate covered, macadamia delights in tokyo and thought that i would be doomed to a life without them back in the states.  BE WARNED CONSUMER!  HIGHLY ADDICTIVE!!!  HIGHLY ADDICTIVE!!!  recently, i mourned the devouration of my last box... but i've found them again!!!!  I CAN LIVE! I CAN LIVE!!!!!!!"
,,,,,Not By The Box,"I really enjoyed eating this macadamia delights from Meiji. The chocolate has a great, and not too sweet, taste. The nuts are a bit small, if you are used to larger varieties, but that is a small problem.<br /><br />I found they were not good for my feeding frenzies. Stuffing a whole box down in about 3 minutes is not a good idea, as the chocolate can leave a bit of an aftertaste in the throat. Taken at a more leisurely pace, they are a real treat."
,,,,,I guess it goes down the same way anyhoe,"I got this product ship one day express. Unfortunately, when it arrived and I opened it, all I saw was a big blob of melted chocolate with LITTLE macadamia nuts in the center of the holders."
,,,,,Yummy!!!,"The actual product deserves 5 stars, the reason I gave it 4 stars is because its like three dollars at asianfoodgrocer.com. That's where I order it from, not amazon. Much lower prices."
,,,,,Quality Chocolate!,I didn't buy them here but I did buy them from Buford Highway Farmers Market here in Atlanta and they are wonderful. They are worth a try. :)
,,,,,1st rate from someone who knows better,"This will be a short review (for me).<br /><br />I am somewhat of a tea connoisseur, so for me to give a tea 5 stars... well this is a first for me in an Amazon review.<br /><br />Like other reviews of this product, it is a beautiful delight to watch this hand sewn tea unfold in the pot; delicate, thin first flush leaves surround a beautiful red center of hibiscus.  The liquor is a light honey color, and the apricot overtones are pronounced on the palate.<br /><br />I would recommend this tea for anyone who enjoys green (or white)teas; wants to become more familiar with them, or as a gift for someone."
,,,,,Too Expensive on Amazon,"I only use C&H Bakers Sugar for all my baking needs and I go through it FAST with a lot of baking. I looked on Amazon to see if I could purchase it in a case for ease and cost savings. At the grocery store, one 4lb carton costs less than $5, so to get three of them, it would cost $15 or less. Here on Amazon it is $28 PLUS $12 shipping. That totals $40 for a $15 product. Yep, that's almost 3 times more expensive than if I just purchase it at the local grocery store. I love Amazon and was really shocked to see this price. This is a definite NO THANKS, I know better than to purchase this item here!"
,,,,,Preferred sugar,"This is the sugar I use for all my white sugar needs. It's very fine, somewhere between the dust like qualities of powdered sugar and regular sugar. It dissolves very well into drinks without that somewhat odd tastes powdered sugar can have because of the corn starch or the granularity of not dissolving completely like granulated sugar which makes it perfect for cold drinks.<br />When baking with it, because it's so fine, I usually use a scant cup (1 cup - 1 tablespoon) instead of a full cup. That seems to work well for me.<br />Excellent for meringues and fudge because it's so fine and dissolves so well."
,,,,,Do not use this sugar for layer cakes if you intend to decorate them,"Too soft: I just used this sugar to bake one of the layers for a firm pound cake-like layer cake intended for decoration (Wilton Butter cake recipe). This is a pretty hardy cake and can stand up to changes in temperature etc and still turn out well. I had already baked several of the layers with regular granulated sugar before I ran out and decided to use some of this baking sugar. Be forewarned, this sugar makes cakes far too tender. The layer literally fell apart coming out of the pan and it was well cooled and in a pan liberally covered in cake release. Even when I was mixing the batter, it for some reason stuck to my stainless bowl and was impossible to scrape entirely out. I'm sure this is good for meringues and such, but I would never attempt to use it again for a cake or even cookies. You would never get them out of or off the pan."
,,,,,The Best for Risotto,We've been trying various rices including Aquarello Carnaroli and this Vialone Nano is by far the best. It's very forgiving of lapses in technique and produced the creamiest risotto of the five brands of rice we've tried.<br /><br />Be sure to have an airtight container to store the unused rice from each package - the vacuum pack plastic is too stiff to close well.
,,,,,Perfect for Risotto,"Great for risotto.  Creates creamy finished product, while maintaining a good 'al dente' bite, better than any other rice I have used."
,,,,,Makes THE BEST risotto!,"If you want to make authentic Italian risotto for a reasonable price, buy this rice! Vialone Nano is - in my opinion - the very best for making risotto. You have to follow the true process, starting with sweated shallots, then parching the rice, then deglazing with white wine, and finally adding hot stock in small amounts while stirring often. If you follow this procedure (and/or find a good recipe), you will be rewarded with some of the creamiest, most mouth-meltingly tender rice you've ever had. Why pay for it in a restaurant when it's so easy to make at home?"
,,,,,It's not bad- matches discription!,"Very crunchy and salty, just like described. I can also tell they use a lot of artificial  color. Not the best caviar. Might be really good for sushi!"
,,,,,Head Over Heals for this Treat,"My dog is simply crazy about these treats. But what is really nice about them is that they are fairly healthy as well. Since they are hard treats they serve the purpose of both cleaning the teeth and providing a semi-long lasting morsel of enjoyment. In additon to that, since these treats are all natural, they do not contain as many of the fillers that are present in some of the other treats, making them extra healthy.<br /><br />The price may seem hefty for simple dog treats but these are pretty large treats that can be broken up into smaller ones and you can't beat the quality."
,,,,,Dog Treats,All the dogs on my Christmas list loved this. They ate it right away
,,,,,Best new flavor on the market,"These seeds are awesome, good size with the perfect amount of spice.buffalo to ranch flavoring.  I've only been able to find them here locally at 2 or 3 other gas stations, ordering them via Amazon is obviously cheaper and saves me nearly 4-5 dollars buying the box."
,,,,,New Buffalo Ranch Flavor is GREAT!,"This new flavor is great. Not too spicy as I thought it would be.  In fact, it has the flavor of buffalo sauce but not the heat which I like.  I tried these from the local convenience store.  But from Amazon, the shipped price is really good.  So I bought a couple of ten packs.  Can't wait. I've been out for a few days now and need something to snack on at work."
,,,,,great,"These are jumbo and flavored nicely,  I ended up saving $.40 per pack as well, good deal.  Once u go jumbo u never go back."
,,,,,"NIce Size, good taste","These are good sized seeds, and they taste good, not over roasted.  I know this as I rinse them before I eat them.  The flavor is a little strong for me, which if you knew me would not surprise you.  I'm not the biggest fan on spices that add heat.  If you like Buffalo Wings, I'm sure you'll love these.  It was the ""ranch"" part of the flavor that caught my eye."
,,,,,Not Your Customary Sunflower Seeds!,"Looking for a good tasting jumbo sunflower seed that is not too salty and has an outstanding flavor?  Then these are for you!<br /><br />They have an awesome flavor are jumbo size and the price won't hurt your pocketbook.  I would recommend them to anyone.  Unfortunately they are hard to find and when you do find some they fly off the shelf, so they must be good!"
,,,,,Should be called Spicy Ranch,"The seeds are large and roasted perfectly. I lived in Upstate NY near Buffalo when the Buffalo wings phenomenon started and have been eating them ever since. These seeds don't even have the faintest resemblance to Buffalo wings. If you are looking for that taste don't buy them.  If you are looking for a great spicy ranch taste then these are for you.  The only flavored seeds available near me are the plain ranch. They are ok, but these have that extra bit of spice that really makes them great.<br /><br />Will be buying these again and highly recommend them to anyone who likes the spicy, yet not too hot ranch taste."
,,,,,Good TV snack,"It was this or a big tub of spice drops. These are better for diabetics. They didn't last long, and my wife enjoys the mess I make 'round the La-Z-Boy."
,,,,,Good flavor and good size,"The only thing keeping this product from five stars are all of the broken shells. At the top of the bag, I found a number of half shells. However, when I got to the bottom I realized that many of the seeds had collected there in a pile of shell remnants and seasoning salt. Blow the seasoning off and you may lose some seeds as well. Otherwise, a great eating experience."
,,,,,Best David Seeds,"The jumbo size is great, and makes for easier consuming.  Those of you Ranch heads like me, do yourself a favor and immediately upgrade.  This flavor is even better, easily the best David has to offer. Great price on Amazon, especially since these flavor seeds are pretty hard to find in regular stores."
,,,,,yummy yummy,These are the best sunflower seeds ever the bigger size makes them easier to eat. load of flavor in every bag!
,,,,,Way too SALTY!!,"The seeds are fresh, the shells are hard and the seeds are JUMBO sized.  The taste is good, but the over-powering amount of salt ruins the experience.  The 'ranch' flavor would be much tastier if the salt used were lessened.  Then again, without the overwhelming amount of salt, David might have to use a bit more of the flavor for which you are actually paying.  By the way, I don't often find items too salty, but this borders on the ridiculous, IMO.  I wholeheartedly endorse the Jumbo size seeds, as they are MUCH more enjoyable than the puny 'regular' sized sunflower seeds by David.<br /><br />I will be buying another brand of sunflower seeds in the future, hoping that it will not have the amount of salt the David's have.<br /><br />Update: I finished all but a little of the case of David buffalo ranch flavored seeds and bought a case of the Jumbo brand ranch flavored sunflower seeds.  I compared them back-to-back.  The Jumbo brand is far less salty and flavorful compared to David's.  It will be interesting how I will find the Jumbo brand to be after eating them for awhile.  Right now, they seem a bit 'under-flavored'.  Still, that is preferable to David's overuse of salt."
,,,,,Vanilla Nut Cafe - favorite flavor,"The Maxwell House International Coffee - Vanilla Nut Cafe - is absolutely my favorite flavor!  Seems to be extremely difficult to locate now, though.  Last purchase was made through Amazon and hoping it will become available again soon!"
,,,,,Not as good as regular,"I couldn't really taste the bergamot in this tea.  It had more of a slight orange peel taste.  Since it is organic, I expected a cleaner, richer taste. It's OK, but not as good as the regular Twinings Earl Grey.  I have had other brands of organic that were superior to either of the Twinings, but at a much higher price."
,,,,,Pleasing finicky cats #3,"My two cats used to love this formula, but I guess they got tired of it, or maybe the formula was changed ... I only feed it occasionally now."
,,,,,Sooo glad I found this!,"Excellent Energy drink, I drink one-a-day before I go for my daily walk, gives me a nice boost!  I like the taste, may take a few too get used to it!  No jitters just a boost!"
,,,,,Great taste,"I started using Celsius over two year ago. Gives just the right boost I needed to exercise in the mornings. No crash or after affects. Has a great taste, nothing strong or overwhelming."
,,,,,Chopped nuts,"The description of the item is ""small pieces, diced.""  I would call them chopped. They're basically what you'd find on a banana split or a sundae or perhaps decorating a chocolate cake or cupcake.  I like the toasted flavor and put them on oatmeal.  They do not come in a sealed package as shown in the photo.  Mine came in a folded over plastic bag inside a cardboard box."
,,,,,one great big huge high-five--from my cat !!!,"My cat LOVES Fancy Feast cat food; and this variety pack in particular makes mealtime a veritable newsworthy event! He always eats it down and he loves it; I can tell.<br /><br />You get eight cans of Ocean Whitefish & Tuna Feast; eight more cans of Savory Salmon Feast with Cod and eight more cans still of Sole & Shrimp Feast. Very good!<br /><br />The food does have some nutritional content; I always look for that when I buy food for the cat. There's some vitamin E, A, D3, B12, and B1. I like that. Naturally, ask your vet if you have any concerns about your cat's personal individual needs for nutritional content in their daily diet.<br /><br />If you catch a sale on this, stock up! However, I would use these cans of food within six months of buying them.<br /><br />Overall, this is one of the better brands of cat food out there; and I recommend it. Your cat will love it and it has nutritional content which is great for them, too."
,,,,,MMMMMMMEEEEEEEEEEOOOOOOOOOOOWWWWWWW...,"These Fancy Feast Variety Packs, which contain twenty-four cans, always ensure that you have a good supply of cat food on hand. I also do not have to waste my time stacking individual cans.  I always have a box of this one, the Gourmet Variety Pack, which is fish and seafood based, on hand. It contains eight cans each of ground ocean whitefish and tuna, salmon and cod, as well as sole and shrimp.<br /><br />I also always have on hand the Fancy Feast Sliced Variety Pack, which contains eight cans each of beef, chicken hearts and livers, and turkey. In addition, I also have a box of the Fancy Feast Grilled Variety Pack on hand, at all times, which contains eight cans each of grilled beef, turkey, and chicken, each in their own savory sauce. My cat, Mamushka,  loves them all."
,,,,,My cat's breath smells like cat food,"I was drawn to this product because it's called a ""feast"", but I was somewhat put off by it being a ""Fancy Feast"". My cat certainly deserves a feast! I mean, he runs himself ragged from morning till night going after mice and by the end of the day he's bushed. And frustrated too, since I had him declawed and all. But he don't need anything fancy, that's for sure. I just want him to enjoy a cat feast and leave it at that. He's not one of them cat's that prances around with his bushy tail waving around like some lady feline. I know my Tubby Toughie would be in cat heaven if they changed the name to ""Fighter Feast"" or ""Beastly Feast"". So, I'm giving this product 3 stars: five stars because it's a pretty great feast, minus three stars because the name offends Tubby Toughie, and plus one star because I like to lick the can."
,,,,,Great Oysters!,"Great oysters, fast shipping. Can't find them local so I took a chance and they were GREAT! They were frozen when I got them and package was well packed."
,,,,,Misleading reviews,"I was just a little wary ordering this because of the other reviews that said it was super salty and way too tough. But I gave it a shot anyway. I don't know if it was because I ordered a different flavor(Teriyaki) or if I just got lucky. Nonetheless, I think these jerky strips are some of the best I've ever had. I will admit to the fact that they are just a little salty, but nothing an ice cold cola or beer of your choice won't fix. As per being tough, I munched down five or six right out of the container as soon as I opened it. I just couldn't stop myself, they were that good. For all that chewing my jaw is none the worse for the wear. So for those of you out there that are real jerky fans, this is definitely worth trying.<br /><br />**Update** I did a little research because I was curious as to why everyone thought this jerky was too salty. I looked up the nutrition facts on all 4 flavors. Both the Original & Peppered contain 650mg of sodium, the Wood Smoked had 570mg, and the Teriyaki has only 440mg of sodium. So if you thought the others were too salty, or are worried about this jerky being too salty, try the teriyaki. I highly recommend it. It's not too salty, just a hint of sweet from the teriyaki, but still nice pepper flavor as well."
,,,,,King B Jerky Strips Found!,"With Jack Links buying King B, it looks like they have repackaged the original beef jerky strips in this label with the same great results. I hope they keep up with the demand as everyone else finds them as I did.  Thanks for bring them back Jack Links!"
,,,,,"Excellent taste, texture","I dont review often, but this stuff is just what I was looking for.  I ordered about $150 of jerky to try all the types I havent yet tried, and I popped this can first.<br /><br />I already found what i want!  The taste is excellent...i'ma  fan of hickory smoked stuff as it is.The texture is good...not too tough, and definately not too tender.<br /><br />What else do you need? Good taste, good texture.  Wish it was a bit cheaper at $25/lb....but what can ya do"
,,,,,Good stuff,"These beef jerky strips are really good.  Texture is just right.  Flavor is peppery, but also just right.  Could be more smoky for me.  This is a repeat buy on my part."
,,,,,jerky,"Just like old style jerky.  Whole strips of meat, not compressed chips. Yum Yum. Peppery."
,,,,,Excellent Jerky,"This stuff is the real deal! Not too soft, not too hard, not too salty, no fat, and a great smokey flavor with just a touch of spice that makes your tongue tingle. For a commercially produced product, this is really a satisfying strip of jerky. I was pleasantly surprised and will definately purchase again..."
,,,,,Yum Yum,"Walked into a convenience store and bought this for .99 and was like, nice.  Asked the counter person if I could buy it at their rate and got the brush off.  Did a little research and voila!  Amazon comes through again.  Bought two jars, and the wife and kids cleaned me out.  I will be getting this sent to me monthly soon."
,,,,,Good jerky,"As processed, mass produced jerkies go, this is one of the best I've had. It compares with King-B. I don't care for all of the poisonous preservatives and processing, but that comes with eating anything these days unless you go and find a hunter you can buy from direct.<br />Fresh game jerky would be the next logical step if you can find it."
,,,,,perfect,"we had been looking for King B brand jerky for months before contacting Jack Links to find out what happened.  They informed us that their Smokehouse brand was indeed new branding for the King B products.  With speculation on them keeping the same recipe, we orderd a jar and were not disappointed!!  The product was exactly what we had remembered the original King B to be. I will definetly be ordering this again!!"
,,,,,Excellent!,"This jerky reminds me a little of the artisan jerky I used to be able to find in California. The strips are thin, so they're easy to bite and the flavor is slightly spicy and definitely smokey.<br /><br />My husband absolutely loved it..he's been taking 2-3 pieces per day in his lunch and they never come back home with him the way other snacks sometimes do! I'm buying more while they're on sale!"
,,,,,wow,let me tell you that this beef jerky has me wanting more. I have never tasted a jerky with more flavor and taste I recommend it to anyone wanting a little more out of their jerky.. A++++++++++++
,,,,,Tasty jerky,"Over the past two years, thanks to Amazon, I have been sampling jerky from literally all over the U.S. I finally found a tasty, jerky that doesn't give my jawbone a workout. Great meat flavor, an excellent snack."
,,,,,At least you can find King B in some form.,I miss the King B ripple style and the regular jerky too.  Thanks Jack Links for at least offering this.
,,,,,Great sticks,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AWBL82"">Jack Link's Smokehouse Beef Jerky Strips, Wood Smoke, 30-Count Jar</a> These are the real deal when it comes to jerky. The whole family loves them. When the grandkids come over they wipe me out. The 2 year old looks for the container sitting on the microwave and says Paw Paw, Stick. These come once a month via the Amazon Subscribe and Save. Just another great quality Jack Link's product. One of the few companies that got big, but never sacrificed quality in the process!"
,,,,,Awsome jerky!,You will love this jerky if you are a beer drinker. Recommend this product for sure for them nights around the campfires!
,,,,,Very good flavor and consistency,These are great tasting and have good consistency and meatiness.  Easy to eat on the run (no mess).
,,,,,Best jerkey ever!!!,This jerky is the bomb!!! It is by fare the best i have ever had and I have had a lot of jerky in my day.
,,,,,Salt Lick,"The product is a good value for the amount you get, however it is way too salty.  The product is very dry and firm.  I think this would be good if they cut the salt content in half."
,,,,,Not what it used to be.,"I'm really disappointed with the changes in quality -- it's not even the same product that we used to love.  A couple of years ago, the product was consistently fantastic, but now the taste, quality of the meat, and freshness are hit or miss...and recently it's all been a miss."
,,,,,"Great flavor, wish it had a longer shelf life.","Great flavor, and texture.  It may not be the best jerky out there, but for the price, I couldn't find any better.  It comes in a few different flavors, so there's bound to be one you like.  I just wish the shelf life was longer, I'd love to keep this with the emergency food/water."
,,,,,Very salty,"I purchased the Wood Smoked flavor.  The reviewers who said that these are too salty were right.  They tastes like sticks of salts.  If you nibble on them very slowly, then they tastes ok as the salts disolve slowly.  If you take a big bite, then it would be like biting into a chunk of salt.  I love the texture and the stringiness of this beef jerky but I would not buy it again because of the high sodium content."
,,,,,Great stuff,This is for all the beef jerky lovers out there. If you like jerky this is the best tasting stuff that Ive found anywhere. All of the flavors are great. The black peppered in my opinion is the best and the wood smoked is a little dry but still good. I would recommend it to anybody.
,,,,,Godly King B beef jerky strips are back.,"I used to eat these King B beef jerky sticks all the time when I was younger, they were my favorite! I figured once King B was gone so was my beloved jerky, but luckily Jack Links has brought it back. This jerky is above and beyond any of that overly-sweet bagged jerky Jack links sells. No, instead this is the way jerky should be, nice and chewy and salty yum. I know some people on here complained about the saltiness but I don't think they're overly salty, they're just plain delicious. Order some, you won't regret it."
,,,,,Believe the reviews - Way too salty,"This beef jerky is extremely salty. I tried the wood smoked flavor, and I figured people were just being a bit picky. However, it really is overpowering and although it has a decent smoky flavor the salt is just way too much. The container says 570mg sodium or 24% of daily value for one serving. I would recommend trying a different product."
,,,,,Yummy Jerky Strips,These are the best Jerky Strips I have ever tasted. Our family has been eating them for years and they are typically a Christmas delight.
,,,,,One of the best!!!,"The Smokehouse Jerky is some of the best out there, a perfect quick snack. It has s great smoke flavor and texture. I even started a subscription to get it once a month....save 15% by doing it.<br />The only con would be a little on the salty side. If you like jerky you can't go wrong with this."
,,,,,The good stuff!,"There are literally hundreds of jerky type products out there.  This is simply my favorite.  Real strips of beef, not ground up hamberger, that tastes like meat instead of preservatives without teriyaki or any other flavoring or sauce.  Good price, good product and great taste.  You'll be happy with this one.  When I'm looking for a non sugary snack, I reach for this first."
,,,,,much yum,"A coworker brought this yummyness into the office and I am so greatful.  I am not big beef jerky fan but this stuff totally falls under my ""much yum"" category."
,,,,,The Best,This jerky is extremely addictive!  I have had most every other brand of jerky and this is by far the best jerky I have ever had.  It was originally King B Jerky.
,,,,,Over priced sticks of salt,"I love all different types of beef jerky, but not this one.  It has the flavor of grocery store bought beef jerky once you get over the overwhelming taste of salt. These sticks are cut thin making them tender and easy to chew, but they're just way too salty and definitely not worth $20"
,,,,,Way Too Salty,"I read the reviews and thought, I like salt. I thought the saltiness was on the exterior of the jerky.  There is very little salt taste on the outside of the jerky but the saltiness comes out with every chew. The strips are about the size of a chopstick or a very thin pencil. 12 ounces for $20+ is way too expensive.  There is very little beef flavor but too be fair it is probably covered up by the salt.  These taste very similar to the chopped and formed cheap jerky at the convenience mart that you swear you will never buy again but much more salty. The amount of salt made my tongue numb, if you want good jerky keep looking. (Jack Link's Smokehouse Beef jerky strips, wood smoked 30-count jar)"
,,,,,Very misleading!!!!,"The Jack Link's 30 Jerky Strips were verrrryyyy SKINNY! Some were only about 1/8 inch wide and counted as one strip. If I had known this, I would NOT have ordered the beef jerky strips - tasty, but totally not worth the money!!!!"
,,,,,too salty,"too salty -- enough said. I order the wood smoked 30-count jar. Remember, the price is for only ONE JAR (not two)."
,,,,,Thought they would be a bit flatter,"Was hoping that the pieces would be a bit flatter in structure, but they shy away from sausage stick territory fine enough.  Flavor wasn't bad, but nothing to write home about.  I'm just glad they weren't that greasy."
,,,,,TOO SALTY,"I like almost everything about this jerky, the toughness and chewiness. But it is just too salty. If you nibble it, you may enjoy it but that is not how i eat. Also, it is not good for my health to eat something this salty. I have run into too many of salty beef jerky patches recently. This review is for the wood smoked, but if other flavors contains the same amount of salt per serving, they will be just as salty. Why everything is either too fatty, sweet or salty??? Are they trying to get us addicted?"
,,,,,maybe I got a bad batch,"I buy jerky all the time, always willing to try something new. I've even made my own at home. I agree with the review that called these salt sticks, they are way too salty for my taste. Also, being a jerky eater for 40+ years, I eat it because i like the toughness and chewiness of jerk. But the tube I got was nearly un-chewable. I have bit into some hard jerky in my time, but jeez louise, these were literally like chewing leather, many of the strips would not yield to my super powered bite."
,,,,,very salty,"this is a good name and a good value; the texture and size of the jerky is fine,<br />but be prepared for the salt. It ruined it for me."
,,,,,Hickory Smoked Way Too Salty!,Wow. The hickory smoked jerkey sticks were incredibly salty. I could not even eat half of the stick. I have had 3 different people try them and they had the same problem. They are so terrible it tastes like you are dumping salt into your mouth. Avoid these at all costs.
,,,,,Hard as a Rock,"First time ordering this jerky from amazon, and I highly recommend to everyone DO NOT BUY IT! It is harder than a rock. I have bought it from other sellers not amazon, and it is much better. The experation date is not for another year, but you cannot even bite it or chew it. Horrible, I think its the worst jerky ive ever bought!"
,,,,,I didn't know beef jerky was supposed to be soupy!!!,"I don't eat beef jerky, and I wanted to buy some for a Christmas gift.  I read all of the reviews at Amazon.com and decided that Jack Links would be the best purchase.  It came nicely packaged, but there is liquid in the packaging - a lot of it.  If you turn the packaging upside down, the movement of the liquid is obvious.  So now I have to pay to return soupy beef jerky and buy a different type.<br /><br />Three days since my original review.  Amazon cannot accept returns of food items, so it kindly replaced the beef jerky.  The replacement also has liquid in it.  It's not fat, but a liquid as described above.  This time, I'm asking for a refund."
,,,,,Don't waste your money,"I buy Jack Links Peppered Jerky every month.  I tried these as this was the first time seeing them.  Don't waste your money.  They are so tough even the kids wouldnt eat them!!  They do not taste anything like the other ""Peppered"" jerkys.  Stick with the 1 oz or the 2 oz sticks they are moist and not so much grizzle."
,,,,,WISH I COULD GIVE IT A ZERO,"This is the worst Jerky I have ever tasted.  It is not edible, I actually gave it to my dog and he spit it out...I kid you not.  Don't buy this product unless you are a bar owner and want your customers to guzzle beers to put out the salty fire that is created when you eat a small bite of this crap!!!  I deserve a refund for buying this dog food....oh excuse me I forgot even my dog won't eat it :-)"
,,,,,Sorry...,I did not realize when I decided to purchase these that they were boxed and because of that I found them stale and hard.  I had previously purchased these at a local store who packaged them in plastic and they were soft and fresh.  Sorry that I could not give these a better review.
,,,,,Great product,"This is the only food my cat will eat.  If I buy another variety or brand, it sits in her bowl until it gets stale & I throw it out."
,,,,,Our finicky eater's favorite food,"This flavor of Fancy Feast is decidedly the favorite of our waif of a cat.  She is usually a very picky eater, but this trout flavor really gets her excited.<br /><br />The local store ran out of this flavor and may not restock it, so I ordered online.  We got a good price and the case of food arrived in good condition.<br /><br />I was a little confused by the old label image that was on the web site that is just different enough from the new label that I had to double check that I was getting the item that I was expecting.<br /><br />It turned out to be the correct item, so all was well."
,,,,,Not any different than regular Friskies,"I honestly cannot say that I saw any difference whatsoever in this variety compared to Friskies regular sliced beef version.  Actually, my cat preferred the regular Friskies over this one.  He's not really all that jazzed over these Fancy Feast varieties anyway, so if you're going to buy this one or the chicken, save your money and buy the regular Friskies versions.  They seem to taste better to the cat and it saves you money.  I've never had a cat that ever got too thrilled over this variety over the years so I guess I'll get the special ones instead."
,,,,,Not their best...,"I think 9 Lives does a better job on this variety than Friskies.  Or I should say my cat does.  Friskies doesn't look as fresh or as appetizing as 9 Lives, and my cat doesn't like it as well.  It just smells nasty and looks not quite as good as the 9 Lives.  I think they could definitely do better on this variety -maybe even add cheese to it!  My cat leaves this one in the dish but eats the 9 Lives version."
,,,,,Great food!,"This version is ground.  NOt my current cat's favorite version, but he really likes the taste. I do wish they'd make this one not ground but in the pieces variety too.  My previous cat really liked this one and usually licked the bowl clean. But, neither wanted it more than once or twice a month.  Why, I don't know but it seems to be a little richer than the others."
,,,,,Great food for all cats!,"According to my cat, this stuff is just great.  He just licks himself for hours after eating this one and just loves the taste.  He will lick the bowl clean on this one and eats it usually pretty quickly.  But, he still doesn't want it more than 2-3 times a month because it's fish - not exactly his favorite food.  It's a great diversion from his regular fare and one that he truly appreciates."
,,,,,Needs improved,"I haven't had a cat yet that liked this one.  It's just a little too interesting for them I think.  It smells nasty but I think it's just the taste that really gets them.  My current cat just won't touch it - he might eat a couple of bites if he's REALLY hungry, but I always wind up throwing it out.  This one is ground so if your cat likes pieces, don't try this one."
,,,,,Very Very Good,"I'm so glad to shop at Amazon.com it have everything you need,I<br />love getting my season from ""Marshalls Creek Spices"" it fresh, and<br />taste, and good try it you will like it I'm so glad to know about<br />amazon.com I wouldn't know about ""Marshalls Creek Spices""<br /><br />  Thank You<br />  Miss Andernette Anderson<br />  God Bless"
,,,,,Lemon Pepper Freshly Packed in Large Jars,I love lemon pepper--I was amazed with this one--large grain and fresh.  Very large jar that delighted me because I use this in nearly everything.  Good tight jar to keep it fresh.  Very inexpensive.  Good buy for home cooks.
,,,,,HUGE RIPOFF,This says 4 pack...so I assumed like other purchases that I made that it was 4 boxes each with 4 packs. Big mistake! You only get four little pouches. Who would pay over $2 for a little squirt of applesauce? Don't make the same mistake. Buy elsewhere.
,,,,,"Love this, but what is with the price?","This ""squeezy fruit"" as my daughter calls it, is great.  Convenient, yummy, no added sugar...I love it.  I just don't understand why it is so expensive??  I find it at the grocery store for $2 for a four pack.  Don't pay this price, that's crazy!"
,,,,,Awesome food!,"This is my cat's favorite one.  He just licks that bowl clean whenever he gets it.  I usually buy a case of this one at a time and judging from how often it sells out, other cats must love it too.  The cheese hunks are large and look quite tasty.  It's just a very nice variety and something I'm sure every cat loves.  My previous cat about ran me down whenever I got it out to give to him and my current cat is no different.  Give this one a try - you'll be glad you did!"
,,,,,My cat's favorite!,My cat is so picky! I've tried every brand and flavor and this is my cat's favorite.
,,,,,Not the favorite in our house,"Once or twice a year for a little variety and that's about enough for my cat of this particular variety.  He likes it for a change from his chicken, turkey and beef, but not very often.  He will eat about 3/4 of the can and then he's had enough. He's not a huge fish fan anyway, but this stuff looks to be about the best out there in the fish varieties.  The chunks are bit sized so if your cat has a small mouth like mine does, it will be easier to chew.  Don't know why my cat doesn't like this type of fish, but he really could care less about it."
,,,,,Four cats love it.,"At 60 years old I have had the care of cats my entire life.  Presently have four cats, three of which were ""barn cats"" and one came out of the woods and adopted us.  These cats love and gobble up Friskies Pate varieties ""Mariner's Catch"", ""Sea Captain's Choice"" and ""Ocean Whitefish with Tuna"".  I also serve as a ""foster parent"" for the local pet shelter and find that these 3 varieties of food are the best tolerated and completely consumed of all varieties.  The ""Salmon"" pate is very rich and I use it only as a special treat.  Incidentally, my cats always reach great age on Friskies.  Our cat ""Kitten"" died at 23 years old. She jumped off of a high bed and severely injured her spine and at the time it happened the Vet asked what food we used all of those years.  It has always been Friskies...dry and wet pet foods.  I find it is the best value and maintains our pet's good health right to the end.  The youngest cat that has died in our care was 18 years old and I have have had 28 cats as permanent pets, and countless foster pets over the years."
,,,,,Our cats love this food,"Of course, nobody can ever figure out what cats will like, but our experience is the opposite of the one-star review.<br /><br />Our two Bengal cats ate kibble for years, but after some serious teeth problems, they had to switch to canned food. We tried a few different brands and flavors. They'd eat it for a few days, then turn up their noses. Even expensive food from the vet's did not please them.<br /><br />So, we tried the Friskies Sea Captains Choice flavor, and they went nuts, gobbling it down like candy. We only bought a few cans at a time, figuring they would tire of it, but no, they have been eating it with gusto for a coupe of months now, so we buy it by the case.<br /><br />I don't understand about it not smelling good; perhaps they got a bad batch, but it smells like other cat foods to us, and the pate is easy to dish out. As long as the cats love it, who are we to complain?"
,,,,,This stuff is bad!,"I honestly have to say that I just won't buy this variety. It looks bad, smells bad and I'm sure tastes bad because my cat won't touch it.  No way, no how, won't even look at it.  My other cat was the same way with this one.  It just looks like a huge ground up mess of leftovers they had at a fish market.  I'm sure some cats must like it because it's still being made, but there's other things out there much, much better than this one."
,,,,,Wrong hat and misleading description,"Instead of a black graduation cap, a top hat was sent instead.  Not great for a graduation gift!  Also, I think any buyer should be aware that by ""Godiva 4 Pack"", they mean ""4 pieces of candy""!  Very confusing description especially when you consider that the picture shows at least 5 pieces of candy! Definitely not worth the price!!"
,,,,,Taste good but gave me gas =(,"These little taffy's are expensive. I think I paid around $11 for the pound. They taste good, but man do they give me gas. After eating about 3 my stomach would be rumbling for a few hours and I would have to pass gas a lot. My girlfriend wouldn't let me eat them before bed hahaha. There was never any pain involved, just gas. I know it was these doing it because we tested it over a few different days. I wouldn't eat the taffy some days and would be fine. All it took was a few pieces and an hour late the bubble guts would start.<br /><br />This information may be useful since its not on amazon. Sugar free does not = carb free. A 1 pound bag is 453g.<br /><br />From the manufacturer website:<br />ingredients: hydrogenated starch hydrolysate, partially hydrogenated soybean and/or coconut oil, acid combinations for flavor (citric acid and/or tartaric acid), egg albumin, salt, lecithin, sucralose, natural and artificial flavors, combinations of red 40, blue 1, blue 2, yellow 5, yellow6.<br /><br />Nutrition Facts<br />Serving Size (40g)<br /><br />Amount Per Serving<br />Calories  110  Cal from fat 20<br />  % Daily Value<br />Total Fat 2.5g  4%<br />Saturated Fat 0g  0%<br />Trans Fat 0g<br />Cholesterol 0mg  0%<br />Sodium  25mg  1%<br />Total Carbohydrate 28g  9%<br />Sugar 0g<br />Protein 0g"
,,,,,A++ Taffy,"I would have given this 5 stars but took one off for the high cost. This product otherwise is just yummy! This is spoken from the perspective of a diabetic who hasn't had regular taffy for years but I think this would hold its own next to regular taffy pretty easily.<br />Its sweetened with sucralose, not maltitol so there isn't the worry of gastric upset which is the #1 reason I ordered it. I don't see why more companies don't forgo the maltitol and just use other sweetners that have less of an impact on digestion. The flavors are full and all different depending on color and yes even the dreaded bannana flavor tastes good.<br />Its soft and chewy and I feel like I am ""cheating"" when I am not at all.<br />I am glad I found this!"
,,,,,low calorie and my dogs love!,I bought this along with the easy freeze ice cube trays for my two dogs. My vet put my lab on a diet so I have been looking for low calories treats to feed him for his evening snack. Each packet is only 30 calories and will fill one easy freeze ice cube tray (six large ice cubes for the extra large size). One packet will also fill my labs kongxl and my terriers Kong medium. They love it and make sure they lick their Kong's clean without getting bored with it. Overall a great snack!
,,,,,handy for cooking Asian recipes,Just right for making dan dan noodles and other delicious recipes.  Glad to have this in my pantry.  Flavorful vinegar will be useful for various dishes.  Product delivery was great - just as expected.
,,,,,different,"milder than most vinegars, but with its own very special taste to add to Ume Plum vinegar, and cider vinegar for that hmmmmm layer of flavor!"
,,,,,Delicious honey,"This is terrific honey.  What more can one say about it?  There was a great price when I got it, too -- much better than at the local supermarkets."
,,,,,Great beef look,"This food variety is ground, thus my cat doesn't care that much for this variety. But, he liked the taste of it a lot so I have been buying it off and on throughout the years.  My previous cat really liked it so I've purchased quite a few of these.  It's got that liver smell to it but they like it so who cares? If your cat likes ground, give this one a try for sure."
,,,,,Family favorite - looks like steak!,This is my cat's third favorite food.  It's great stuff - the gravy is so very thick and the food looks like bits of steak slicked off for your friend.  My cat licks the bowl clean every time and wants more.  They should send me discounts for as much of this stuff I buy.  I buy it by the case if that gives you some idea!
,,,,,Great food!,"This is another favorite in our house.  My cat doesn't want it more than 4 times a month or so, but he still wants it and licks the bowl clean.  It is fish, not his favorite, but he really likes his salmon and this one is outstanding.  It's ground (why don't they make a sliced or bits version?), not his favorite either, but he does get it down pretty quickly.  Try this one - it's a definite winner."
,,,,,What's in this?,"This one is a great basic food. Whatever is in it, cats really go for and mine is no exception.  My current cat really doesn't like the ground variety which is what this is.  He will eat it occasionally, so I only buy it about twice a year.  My previous cat had to have it more often and really enjoyed it.  It's hard to judge what a cat will eat so if your cat likes ground, give this one a go because it really seems to be a big favorite."
,,,,,High Quality Jerky.,"Taste: Amazing. The honey flavor goes well with the smoked barbeque taste. It's soft, but not too soft. It also has a nice tang and spice to it, but nothing too extreme.<br />Smell: As soon as I opened it, everyone in my section ran up to see what the smell was. I'd describe it as alluring and inviting. Not overpowering or off-putting.<br />Price: For a pound of this quality of jerky, I'd expect it would cost more. Needless to say, you get more bang for your buck.<br /><br />In short, if you want a good jerky to snack on, you can't go wrong with this selection. Do your tastebuds a favor and get this jerky."
,,,,,Honey bbq delight,"Delicious, pretty good stuff. Its sweet and not like chewing on leather like some products I've tried. Deffinately worth the money and for people who dont like crazy hot jerky but still like a little bite, this is for you"
,,,,,Great Jerky,"This jerky is flavorful and tender..can't ask for much more.  The only problem I have with it, is that it doesn't last long enough around my house ;)"
,,,,,Looks Good And Tastes Good,I bought this product because it looked good not knowing if it would taste as good as it looked. Well it finally showed up by USPS well packaged. It's soft smells great and tastes even better. You won't be disappointed. I've already eaten five strips.
,,,,,Awesome,"This is the absolute and complete BEST beef jerky that I have ever had. You'll be hard pressed to find better, if you can. It's tender and has a good bite but at the same time you won't rip your teeth out either. It's also not too salty."
,,,,,Best beef jerky so far,I've been trying different beef jerkeys and by far I find this product to be the best tasting. nice meaty chunks and very flavorful.
,,,,,LEGENDARY,"SO GOOD SO PERFECT SO TENDER SO MEATY SO TASTY SO DELICIOUS YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO EAT JUST ONE, BELIEVE ME I HAVE TRIED. ALL CAPS IS RUDE."
,,,,,Absolutely one of the best Hard Candies  available,I am always on the  lookout for good old fashioned candy. Funny I do not even have a sweet tooth. However I really appreciate a quality candy. I picked up one these purely for the fantastic packing they come in. After just one taste it was obvious that the company has put love and care into producing these candies.  If you are looking for unique smooth and delicious old fashion candy look no further. Highly recommended.
,,,,,Very flavorfull,"If you like a lot of flavor in each bite, this is it.  A little messy to handle but worth the fuss!!!"
,,,,,It's been done better.,"I absolutely loved Newman's Own pretzels with the pepper baked right into the pretzel for just a little bite. These are not as tasty and yes, they are messy and overly seasoned.  Not really a fan of this line of flavored broken pretzel pieces, although this was a little better than some of their other flavors.<br /><br />Someone out there needs to try making the baked-in black pepper version again, please. Not sure why Newman's Own stopped."
,,,,,quick delivery,it's difficult to describe herbal type pills. with no quick results it takes blind faith really. i reckon these are ok? i got what i ordered quickly
,,,,,Earl Grey Tea + + +,This tea is full of flavor without bitterness.  No additions needed.  You will not be disappointed.  Do not try this Earl Grey if you do not like bergamot.
,,,,,GREAT TEA,"I ordered this for my daughter, who does not like coffee. She says it is the best tasting tea, and it brews perfectly with the Keurig. Also like the large quantity box."
,,,,,"ZiwiPeak is made in the US, consistency problems",Many people are buying this food believing it is safer because it is made in New Zealand. It is now made in the US by Performance Pet Products. I have been feeding this food to my cats since the recall horror of 2007 and prior to the change it was excellent food and I was thrilled with it. Since ZiwiPeak has been switched to canning in the US it has been a nightmare. Several times in the last year I have opened the food to find it is a green or blue colour. I had to return those cans because it made both my cats vomit and have loose stools. Also recently I have found large sharp bone pieces are present and very large strange chunks of greyish pink material that looks like connective tissue. I've contacted the US distributor twice but they have never replied. A batch I got this month with an expiry date of 2014 has caused severe vomiting and shedding with both cats who were previously healthy.
,,,,,Awesome Cat food,"This is the best cat food- I introduced it to my 16yr old cat slowly and she is much healthier, has a shiner coat and sheds less. Each time I purchase, I switch up the flavors, cats love variety.<br />Great product!"
,,,,,"At last, a canned food they will eat!","My two Siberian cats refused almost a dozen canned foods, but THIS, they could not get enough of!  Thank you!  A superb supplement to their dry food diet."
,,,,,Kiwi love for cats,"Just like anything else from New Zealand this food is amazing. My cat can't wait for it, and plate is always clean. She loves it and I feel great buying Ziwipeak. They even put green muscles in this food. Overall food looks solid, packed with proteins and kiwi love."
,,,,,Neither cat will touch it :( But dogs go wild...5 Star for Dog Food Treat,"We all know how picky cats can be.  It may be grain free, but food still smells, looks like, and fine details in label indicate ""highly processed"" with all the extra vitamins & minerals, which I think is the ""turnoff"" for the kitties. Doesn't say up front, but also contains New Zealand Green Mussell, which I am not sure how that ingredient fits in as I am not from New Zealand, but suspect locals rely on that for nutrients as we do mussells in this country.  They are spoiled on the real thing - minimally processed or raw rabbit, chicken, bird, wild caught salmon.  They will eat canned only if minimally processed.  Another cat food bites the dust but gives the dogs another treat! 1 STAR for not knowing about the New Zealand Mussell & for still being highly processed & therefore unpalatable as food for cats that love rabbit. 5 Star for a dog treat without the added hormones, grains, etc."
,,,,,my cats wouldn't eat it...,My cats absolutely would not eat this food so it was a waste of money..it is just sitting in our cabinets.  I will donate it to a shelter...
,,,,,What happened to Claxton Farms Quality???,"I've eaten Claxton Farms fruit cakes for over 40 years and love them.  I thought I'd be smart and order 5 one pound cakes at once as I know I'd use them.  This time the quality control went out of town.  Lousy.  Absolutely disappointing.  Of the 5 loaves, one was good,  Two were so dry they crumbled rather than be cut and I ended up adding them to cake batter in cupcakes or put on ice cream as topping,  totally unable to slice.<br /><br />the last two loaves just the opposite, they were runny.  When taken out of the wrapper they just flopped over, again, had to use as ice cream topping or put into cake batter for cupcakes.<br /><br />Claxton Farm might have sold out or fired the Quality Controller.  Awful quality after all these years.  Do NOT order from Claxton as you don't know what you'll get.  They lost a long time customer with me."
,,,,,Not like the good ole days,"In Christmas, 2010 I first ordered Clayton Fruit Cakes. They where great! Nice big cherries and other fruits and nuts. These were overloaded with the good stuff that makes a Fruit cake really great. So I re-ordered in Christmas of 2011. What a disappointment! I ordered 5 one pound cakes. When my order arrived, I was so excited. Yes I like fruit cake. Only too be very disappointed. Not only where the cakes void of very much fruit, unless you want too count the raisons as fruit. I will not be ordering Clayton Fruit Cakes next year. I can get the same results from a Hostess Fruit cake, and only spend $3.50, instead of close to 30 dollars for the Clayton cakes."
,,,,,fruitcake in June!,"I have a friend from England who adores fruitcake. For her birthday i sent her a package of fruitcake. She swooned, Fruitcake in June is so decadent. She loves Claxton fruitcake so this was a no brainer. Now I want some too!"
,,,,,Very Disappointed,"Claxton Dark Fruitcake has been a holiday tradition in our family since the mid 1950's. I ordered it directly from the company this year and when I served it at Thanksgiving, my guests and I thought I must have been fooled by a counterfeit website just claiming to sell Claxton fruitcakes.  It was at best 40% fruits and nuts and consisted of a gummy light colored ""cake"".  I emailed the company and expressed my disappointment.  After several emails back and forth and after today talking to one of the owners, they assured me that it was the original dark recipe.<br /><br />In reading the ingredients, I noticed that corn syrup, sugar and high fructose corn syrup were listed after flour which was the 4th ingredient.  At the very end were listed molasses, spices and 3 artificial food dyes.  High fructose corn syrup wasn't widely available until the mid 1970's to mid 1980's, so I'm not sure how it was one of the original ingredients.<br /><br />All of the people I talked to seemed to have the attitude that I was so stupid that I couldn't possibly be observing what I had correctly. Although they offered to send replacements if I returned it at my own expense, they told me that what I would receive would be identical to what I have.  One of the owners informed me that they had received zero complaints this year.<br /><br />I am grieving the loss of an almost 55 year tradition, but the other 4 cakes are now in the trash."
,,,,,Valrhona Manjari 3kg,"This is simply the best chocolate I have ever tried. In general, 3kg packages are much better than 70g Valrhona's. If I had only tried 70g Valrhona Manjari, I would have never known how good it can be. Try the 70g to see which one you like and then buy 3kg package(it will be 3 times better). It has around one year of best before left when you buy it(which is enough, beleive me)...<br /><br />Great for cooking and sublime for eating."
,,,,,Amazing cooking chocolate,"This is amazing chocolate for most baking. Manjari in general is wonderful, fruity and deep in taste. But the feves in the 3 kg package melt super easily, the package is resealable and you can keep it in the fridge."
,,,,,Innocence lost,"So, I moved from Europe to the US, I settled in my apartment etc, and after a week or so I decided that I wanted some candy. I went to the supermarket and started looking for some M&M's. Then this weird *red* bag caught my eye and I thought, hah!, this country is funny, they put an 's' instead of an 'm' on their M&M's here, and the bag is all different too.<br /><br />So I took one bag home to try it. I grabbed a handful of the presumed M&M's and ... what a surprise. This was obviously not what I had bargained for, and I considered ditching this wrong purchase, but instead I figured I'd give this weird stuff another chance at some other time.<br /><br />Do you realize that my mortal soul could _still_ have been saved, at that point ??<br /><br />It was only in the next few days that the addiction set in. I found myself longing for more of that flavor when the bag was through; I wouldn't have reckoned at first, that I would actually buy many more of these bags on purpose.<br /><br />Now my willpower has been eternally challenged. My stomach will never be like before. My jaw is numb from the endless compulsive chewing. And I can just feel my teeth desintegrating right when I take another dose. Why do I forever ache for that soothing acidic taste ? They're so delicious they ought to be outlawed !"
,,,,,Helps me get into Beast Mode...Go Seahawks!!!!!,Never gave much thought to this treat until Marshawn Lynch came to town...Awesome have a big ole candy dispenser at work with a big Seahawks sticker on it...Now we have Matt Flynn beast-mode cajun style...
,,,,,YUM.,"I've always, ALWAYS loved Skittles! They are sweet and chewy, and they will give you plenty of cavities if you're not careful! ^_^<br /><br />Enjoy them, and buy this 3.5 lb bag today!<br /><br />4.5 stars."
,,,,,That is a lot of candy,My title was my reaction when I first opened the box it came in.  I didn't really plan on eating the whole bag since they are mostly gonna be used as reinforcement to get my kids potty trained.  My two year old girl doesn't really care so much but they work wonders for my four year old with autism.  I give her one after she potties and washes her hands and she couldn't be happier.  I do find myself reaching in and getting handfuls at times but I try not to go overboard.  If you love Skittles than this bag will probably be good for you but if you are just a casual candy eater than maybe not.
,,,,,its fresh and really good.,The package arrived 3 days earlier then it said it would and they were very fresh. They were also cheaper then the candy. Some of the candy had melted together but it was only maybe 3 pieces per bag. Overall really good.
,,,,,skittles are tasty!,"I have an interesting relationship with Skittles.  When I was about 10 years old, I absolutely thought they were average at best and couldn't understand what everyone loved so much about them.  ""Too sour, not tasty enough"" was my impression.  Later however, I entered my teenage years and it actually took until I nearly graduated from high school that the taste caught on with my tastebuds and became super delicious to me.  What also got me hooked is this kid I remember from 10th grade science class who would ALWAYS bring in a bag of Skittles *every single day* and chew on them, and all the girls liked him because of his good looks and smooth personality, so Skittles sort of gave me the impression that COOL kids eat Skittles.  However, please buy bags of Skittles from your local grocery store- it's not worth it here on amazon with the high dollar price.  You can find plenty of places in your area selling them for cheaper prices.  My only complaint with Skittles is that, despite the color, they *all* taste exactly the same to me!  Purple, green, red, orange, yellow... I really can't taste a difference between these supposed ""different flavors"".  Then again, I don't have a favorite color in a rainbow so maybe this makes perfect sense!"
,,,,,Childhood taste,"I just love skittles! For a while we had them here in Brazil (South America), but then for some reason I couldn't find them anymore, so when my aunt is coming down for a visit I ask her to bring me some. This time I decided to spare her the shopping trouble and I bought it through Amazon and had it sent to her place. The bag was a bit larger than I expected, but I guess this was a good thing, right?"
,,,,,54OZ bag of SKITTLES,"Aweful! They arrived immediately and still were as hard as cement! The bags' supposed re-sealable zipper,didn't re-seal once and maybe the large amount had something to do with it but again, I cannot believe how stale and terrible the candy inside was!"
,,,,,Love Skittles this bag was full,So this bag of skittles is really worth it. Comes with a load of skittles filled too the top of the bag. Skittles is my favorite candy now I order the 3.5lb all the time. Its enough to share and still have a lot left over
,,,,,First time buying candy over the net,There isn't much to say other than the delivery was great and the candy was fresh and chewy. Eating alone the bag lasted me 2 months. Great for the price and I'd order again!!!
,,,,,Tastes like Skittles to me!,"I ordered these because I couldnt seem to find this size at the store. There were a couple skittle shells at the bottom of the bag from the shipping of the product, but everything else was fine."
,,,,,"Price is high, skittles are skittles","Skittles are a great candy but for this product i would say do not buy it here, I have seen this same bag for $5.89 on sale and not on sale for $7.99 at some big chain stores. the candies themselves are fine and if you are thinking of getting a big bag you know what they taste like just don't overspend to get a big bag (price wise might be cheaper to buy a bunch of little bags)"
,,,,,Much better deal nowadays!,"The add on program makes this a great deal for a natural, very tasty sugar.<br /><br />You can add to any order over $25 or buy 8 (like I did) and have all 16# delivered free. Either way an outstanding value!<br /><br />There are lots of good reasons to eat natural sugar. I use in my coffee and making bread. Use 1 to 1 instead of ""white"" sugar for your needs. You may find that yeasts will proof faster and more bubbly with this type of organic sugar.<br /><br />The zip-loc bag does not seal all that well. So I store in a quart mason jar in the dark cupboard. Each bag is sightly more than one quart. The balance is added to the sugar bowl.<br /><br />Give this sugar a try. Hope you enjoy it as much as I do!"
,,,,,Only If You Can't...,"... get this type of sugar any other way than through ordering it because the shipping is INSANE!  The sugar is fine but for the price of the shipping, it was not worth it."
,,,,,Absolutely Scrumptious,"I buy syrups to make soda with plain seltzer water, and this one is by far the absolute most delicious one I have found. This particular flavor is incredibly true to a real red grapefruit flavor, yet sweet and powerful. What's great is that the flavor works whether I want just a little or a lot, depending on how sweet I want my soda to be on any given day. It's comparable to Squirt / Fresca, but honestly I think the actual flavor is much richer and more satisfying. If you like the taste of grapefruit even a little bit, you won't be disappointed."
,,,,,"A vey good sampling of goat cheeses, but not Great","I love goat cheeses and buy them on a regular basis.  A lot of people seem unaware that there are many other types of goat cheese on the market other than the ultra fresh Chevre.  I have purchased this selection by iGourmet for both myself and for others as gifts.  The reactions from my friends have been mixed.  They all enjoy the harder chesses, such as the Goat Cheddar and the Ibores.  However, some people don't like fresh, soft goat chesses and one of the reasons that I send them this selection is so that they can try a variety of different chesses.  However, in the selection that I was sent it contained two versions of Chevre-type cheeses including the delicious Buche de Chevre.  Still, I wished they had more of the harder to find goat milk versions of cheeses traditionally made from cow's milk such as the goat's milk Cheddar and Gouda.<br /><br />As for as price goes, this is a surprisingly good value.  You are getting two pounds of very expensive chesses for a little more than I have paid for one pound of some of the varieties here.  One of my friends did receive a substitution for one of the chesses.  Instead of the cheddar they received the Cypress Grove's Midnight Moon.  I can certainly understand why substitutions would be necessary and I felt that they replaced the listed cheese with an even better variety.  Overall I am very pleased with both the price and the quality of the cheeses, I just wish that they had less fresh and more unique forms of this wonderful type of chesse.<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1423603680"">Goat Cheese</a>"
,,,,,Wonderful Cheese,Ordered this goat cheese and it is just fantastic! I can't digest cow milk so finding these goat cheeses was a great treat! I would order them again they are that delicious! Looks spectacular on a cheese platter with fruit and selected crackers.
,,,,,Delicious Selection,"Mine came with a wine soaked variety thats purple - i haven't tried yet , the cheddar is delicious and melts smoothly ...Marigold (actually has marigold bits in it) - very nutty, earthy soooo tasty my favorite so far and the bouche de chevre -mmm runny creamy delicious! I have never been disappointed by any of the igourmet cheese selections even if its different than pictured this is no different!"
,,,,,Heartier And Better Than I Expected,"This soup is like a combination of vegetable, lentil and Spanish rice soups.  It has a slightly gelid texture, though I never add as much water as I should.  4.5 stars to be exact."
,,,,,Yummy,Tried this in a turkey burger and it was sooo good. I definitely recommend faery free. Salt can be added or better yet add a sprinkle of Goya Adobo.
,,,,,"Not real veggies, but a really good 'better' than chips snack","It wouldn't be very smart to replace real veggies with these veggies straws but if you want a healthier salty snack I personally can't think of a better one on the market.  The portion size for 130 calories is absolutely gluttonous.  One portion is equal to 38 straws.  That is quite a bit of snacking for 130 calories.  These are crispy and taste great.  There is no trans fat, no preservatives, and kosher certified.  The single serving does have 7 grams of total fat and 11 carbs.  Eating these all the time might not be great for your diet but when you want something this is fantastic option.  I have lost 92lbs in the last year and half by following a sensible diet and I am happy to say this brand of Veggie Straws has helped me along the way."
,,,,,"Good flavor, a little misleading","Someone grabbing a bag of Veggie Straws may mistakenly believe Veggie Straws are made primarily of vegetables other than potatoes.  In fact, a quick read of the back of the bag reveals they are made primarily of potatoes and flavored with tomato and spinach.  This explains why they taste so much like potato chips.  The texture is light and crisp, and while it's been many years since I've had pork rinds, that's what I think of when I bite into these straws.<br /><br />Sensible Portions is the name of the company.  A 20 ounce bag contains 20 servings, which is about 38 straws.  Each serving has 7 grams of fat.  Compare that to <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0071BYOK8"">Frito Lay Baked! Ruffles Original Potato Crisps</a>, which contains only 3 grams of fat per 1 ounce serving.<br /><br />If you can overlook the fat content, Veggie Straws are actually quite tasty, and they do have that psychological edge with that name.  I feel like I'm eating healthier, even when I'm not."
,,,,,Best Kitty Cookies Ever,My kitties love these. Other Goodlife treats are good. Kitties adore these. Beg and plead for them. I think they must be addictive for cats.
,,,,,A Big Ripoff!,"I bought this thing after a recommendation from a pet store rep. My dog hardly touched the stuff, and then I looked at the ingredients: one of the first things on it was corn-a grain known to cause allergies in dogs. As a matter of fact, corn might be the most allergy-prone food amongst dogs. Not to mention, thanks to our friends at Monsanto, it is almost always Genetically modified (GMO) or a franken-food, unless it's organic. Real ""premium"" dog foods brag that they've no corn.<br /><br />Right at the top of the list of ingredients is chicken-by-products, another no-no among real ""premium"" dog foods. This means all the waste that it is usually thrown out from the chicken since it's not real meat. Cheap dog foods put this in their food simply because it's cheap, but it's not real meat. A little further down you will notice BHA, an artificial preservative, which again real ""premium"" dog foods do not have.<br /><br />In short, BilJac is a joke. It is basically, insanely overpriced Alpo, with no organic ingredients whatsoever, and uses all the shortcuts, filler, and chemistry that the cheapest dog foods on the market use. Don't be fooled by the old-fashioned appeal of the company's 60 years in business. There is nothing but modern chemistry in the bag, and all the folksy appeal will not make up for cheap, lousy ingredients. Calling this stuff premium dog food would be like calling a Kia a Mercedes. For nearly the same price as this overpriced Alpo, one could buy organic dog food, free of preservatives, corn, and cheap by-products!"
,,,,,Great food for senior dogs,"My dog is 12 years old, and his breed (powderpuff chinese crested) is very subject to gum disease and tooth loss. After the last visit to the vet, with surgery that cost 13 of his teeth, I have struggled to find him a food that he could eat, that he liked, and would maintain his weight, his energy level (very playful pooch!), AND be good for him. He doesn't like soft food, so it's been a real task.<br /><br />This food does it. It's not brittle or ""dusty"". It is shaped like pellets (almost like rabbit food) and breaks really easy. It's tasty, cause he scarfs it right up, and he also has managed to get some weight on him. He looks better than ever before. I can at last rest easy knowing he is getting a decent nutritious food."
,,,,,Works well with my old snaggle-toothed dog,"I have a fourteen-year-old chihuahua who is missing half his teeth. He has always been a dry dog food grazer who enjoyed picking out a piece or two of kibble and taking his time playing with it a while before he ate it. But he got where he couldn't chew the dry kibble, and for many reasons the canned wet dog food was not working out. This Bil-Jac Senior proved to be the answer. He is able to have the comfort of food in his bowl all day like he's used to, and he can actually eat it when he's hungry. I am grateful for this product because we are both old dogs who are pretty set in our ways."
,,,,,Bil-Jac wins hands down,"Both of our dogs are fed Bil-Jac. My older dog, Dixie, loves this Senior version. It's nutritionally dense, with meat as it's primary ingredient and without empty fillers and fats. Dixie's weight is easier to maintain with this formula, and she has the most marvelous shiny coat too."
,,,,,I'm somewhat distressed.,"I have to add that I've not baked with this yet. But when I received this I was aghast at the ingredients. Perhaps I didn't read it well because the ingredient list is right there... I guess I simply expected alcohol & vanilla beans, maybe sugar, in an ""ol' timey"" product.<br /><br />I'll update this once I use it."
,,,,,Very Good!,"I've had the other Nana's No Gluten Cookie Bars in Berry Vanilla, and they aren't that good. But, the Chocolate Munch flavor is good. They are more moist, have a good flavor and a little crunch. The only reason I'm giving it four stars instead of five is that the texture is a little bit crumbly. I will be buying these again."
,,,,,From a person with a very limited diet,I agree with everything that the previous reviewer wrote in their review.  I gave the cookies a rating of 5 stars though because i havent eaten a cookie in about 4 years without getting sick.  This is because I have severe allergies to wheat and soy.  Pretty much every cookie you will find in a normal grocery store will have one if not both of these ingrediants.  So when I found Nana's cookies I was as happy as can be.  Yes the texture is different than a wheat cookie but it's better than going without cookies.  It also doesnt hurt that these cookies are delicious.  If you are like me and have a very limited diet these cookies are  a very welcome addition to that diet.
,,,,,Not a Gluten Free Product,"I am celiac and have been keeping a strictly gluten-free diet for over six years, and was excited to learn about this product.  After eating it, [the taste and texture was not bad] I became sick in the way that I always do when ingesting gluten. Nana's also makes non-gluten products, and clearly are not careful about cross-contamination.  If you are concerned about ingesting gluten or keeping a strictly celiac diet, I strongly recommend you avoid this product.  I also think that the company should not deceive their customers, many who suffer from celiac disease, and should more clearly label their product as it is a danger to the health of many who would be inclined to buy this product."
,,,,,"Good taste, but texture takes a little getting used to.","I actually tasted the Berry/Vanilla flavor.  If you've ever eaten a fig newton, then try to imagine a fig newton, minus the fig center, with rice crispies mixed up in it.  It tastes a little grainy at first, but once I read the ingredients and realized that the grains were puffed rice, I was more at ease.  Really a good taste.  One of the better gluten free/casien free/egg free cookies I've eaten."
,,,,,Yuck!,"The flavor is decent (berry vanilla), but I just can't handle the texture.  It's like a mouthful of sawdust that just disintegrates when you bite into it.  I've been gluten free for about 6 years, and there are much better products out there.  My kids won't even eat these!"
,,,,,A Gluten Free Ewweee.,"Like other reviewers, I rarely eat cookies because I have an anaphylactic response to wheat/gluten. Therefore I generally 'love' any cookies I'm not allergic to. These are an exception. The taste is mild and fleeting. The texture is like sand and leaves a dry feeling in your mouth. The only purpose these cookies are good for is dieting, because they are simply inedible. Blah."
,,,,,I love these!,"I have to disagree with the other review here! I love the little bits of crunch in these otherwise really soft cookies. I love the banana taste, and I love these cookies! It's so nice to have a a gluten free cookie option that doesn't suck! I totally recommend these!"
,,,,,Great Gluten Free Cookies,My daughter who is type 1 diabetic and has Celiac loves these cookies. Have had a hard time finding them in the local health food stores so was so happy to discover them on Amazon so bought 2 cases of them so now there is enough for the whole family.
,,,,,Not too bad,"These are sort of like brownies.  A little soft, a little dry.  My 7 year old really likes them.  They're good if you are on a restricted diet, but otherwise nothing too special."
,,,,,My girl's love these!,"I have a 3-year-old and a 9-year-old that love these! The best thing is that they are healthy. They are vegan, so no dairy, eggs or other animal products. They are also fruit juice sweetened and made with whole grains. Absolutely nothing artifical. They have little chocolate chips in them and taste yummy! I'm so glad that Amazon carries them because they are much cheaper to buy by the case then at local health food stores or through the company website."
,,,,,Weird texture; too dry and crumbly...,"I love the other Nana's cookie bars and cookies, so I thought I'd give these a try even though they are ""No Gluten"" and made with rice flour instead of wheat flour. They look nice, but the texture is a bit strange (it's kind of like eating really fine sand) and they are too dry and crumble at the slightest touch. They don't taste bad, which is a plus, but I won't be buying these again."
,,,,,Taste like dirt,"I purchased these because they do not contain dairy, soy or corn.  Well, in addition to being dairy free, soy free.... they are FLAVOR FREE!  Absolutely horrible dry tasting bars.  First words out of my mouth were ""tastes like dirt"" so that's what I'm going with.  DO NOT WASTE YOUR MONEY."
,,,,,DIsgusting -- gave me an instant headache!,"These are so gross I can't believe I wasted my money on them. They gave me an immediate migraine from the overwhelming artificial-smelling fragrance. I am NOT that picky an eater and I generally love any GF cookie just b/c I am so grateful they exist. But OMG I immediately spit this out AND rinsed out my mouth! Even my snack-loving toddler didn't like these. Eating them, that is. She did have a great time massaging it into a fine powder which takes almost no effort at all. What a mess. And what a waste of money."
,,,,,Best cookie bar ever,"I crave these day and night. Best cookie/brownie bar I have ever tasted- not too headache-y sweet, but a rich cocoa flavor with a really great texture. They hit the spot. Wish they were at more grocery stores!"
,,,,,"great for restricted diets, kids like",I have a 7 yr old w/food allergies and both he and my 3 yr old love these.  I have compared to several other cookie/snack items made with no dairy & eggs and I think we all liked these the best.  Definitely a must have for restricted diets.
,,,,,finally something for those of us on restricted diets!!,"I love love love these cookie bars.  I can't have any sugar or any gluten and happened upon these at Whole Foods.  What a saving grace!  The big cookies are also excellent, but I would eat the whole big cookie at one time.  These little bars are perfect."
,,,,,Great for Gluten Free and No White Sugar,"I have Celiac Disease, and I try to keep the refined sugar to a minimum, and I was suprised by how good these are! The light crunch is a shock at first, but is tasty. It is a tad dry, so I am only giving 4 stars. But the taste is great considering how healthy it is!!"
,,,,,So good -and good for you too.,My kids love these and I feel good about giving them to them. They're all natural and sweetened with fruit juice instead of sugar. We like to pop them in the microwave for about 10 seconds - then they taste like fresh out of the oven chocolate chip cookies. Yum.
,,,,,Great for those on a limited diet,"My 3 year old son was just diagnosed with allergies to wheat, egg and milk.  I was so upset when I found out but a little relieved as I started finding foods he can eat.  Yes, they are crumbly but they taste good, my kids like them and they meet his new dietary restrictions.  Since the option is not giving a 3 year old cookies I don't mind some crumbs!"
,,,,,Just Terrible.,"We have a gluten free household of 5.  No one in our family likes these.  My children (9, 7, &5) are begging me to throw the box away - I think they are afraid I'll sneak one in their lunchbox.  The cookie crumbles leaving a dry mess of rice flour and hardish chewy fruity bits in your mouth.  Have a glass of water nearby if you try these.  I hate to leave a bad review, but there are way better gluten free options out there.<br /><br />(I won't throw the box away.  I'll pass it on to another gluten free family I know and let them form their own opinion.)"
,,,,,I threw them away,I was disappointed in the unpleasant flavor and dry texture of Nana's Chocolate Munch Cookie Bars. To me there was an odd artificial almost chemical like after taste in them that cocoa powder can't even cover up. I threw away the entire box after tasting the first bar.
,,,,,Makes a nice gluten-free strawberry shortcake.,"Nana's cookies are good eaten plain.  They are a bit crumbly compared to cookies made with wheat flour.<br /><br />The cookies are individually packaged.  I find it better to cut the plastic open with scissors to avoid breaking the cookies.<br /><br />If you want the cookies crumbled, just break them up in the packaging and then cut open with scissors to dispense neatly.<br /><br />I like to cut up strawberries and crumble a Nana's cookie over them.  With a little whipped cream, it's just like a good strawberry shortcake.  They are great crumbled over bananas, too.<br /><br />Despite being somewhat fragile.  Nana's cookies from Amazon usually arrive intact."
,,,,,Nana Banana - a delicious gluten-free treat for kids or adults!,"Let me preface this review by saying that in the gluten-free world, baked goods tend to be a bit on the crumbly side because they are missing the ""glue"" (gluten) that holds them together.  Taking this into consideration, Nana's gluten free cookie bars are one of the tastiest gluten-free treats and one of the only brands sweetened with fruit juice instead of sugar.<br /><br />At only 130 calories, 4.5 grams of fat, and 7 grams of sugar (natural fruit sugar), the Nana Banana flavor of cookie bars makes a great treat for kids and adults.  The amount of banana is just right, and you even get a few tiny bits of crunchy banana inside.<br /><br />Each cookie measures approximately 3.5 inches long by 1.5 inches wide...perfect for a light snack or dessert, especially for kids.  Amazon has the best price around on Nana's Cookie Bars, so rest assured that you are getting a good deal, even though they are pricier than ""regular"" cookies made with corn syrup and sugar.<br /><br />Good cookies aren't cheap, and cheap cookies aren't good!  Give Nana's banana cookies a try.  (No, I don't work for Nana's but am a happy, loyal customer!)"
,,,,,a Chocolate treat,"My 2 year old eats the Chocolate Munch Cookie and LOVES them. I bought them not because they were gluten free, but because they are sweetener free. He calls them ""chocolate treat,"" if that gives you any indication of how good he thinks they are. I would definitely recommend this flavor to everyone. I have found that with the subscribe and save discount I can get the boxes cheaper on Amazon than in stores like Sunflower, Sprouts and Whole Foods."
,,,,,Disappointed in texture,"It is close to impossible to find a cookie that is both soy free, wheat free, and the only sugar that is used is from natural juices: apple, etc. That is the only reason I gave the cookie such a high ranking...<br />As for taste, the chocolate flavor is pronounced, I enjoy the ""crunch"", however, the texture of the cookie has a lot to be desired. The cookie needs to either be crunchier or more moist. As is it wants to stick to the roof of your mouth, and is just odd. Making it unappealing. If I had tasted the item prior to ordering, I wouldn't have bought a whole box full."
,,,,,price keeps increasing. . .,"i have enjoyed this product for quite some time.  however, i am disgusted by the fact that the price keeps increasing!  at $35 per case, customers are paying more than $4 per box for 5 small cookie bars - ridiculous!  i will find a healthier, more reasonably priced snack to munch on. shame on nana and amazon. . ."
,,,,,Great Gluten-Free Snack,These cookie bars are great for packing in a lunch or having alone for a snack. Try all the flavors for a variety.
,,,,,I Don't Have Any  Food Allergies,"I love these banana cookies even though I can eat any other brand/ingredient.  Yes, the texture is DIFFERENT, but that's what I really like about them.  It kind of reminds me of mexican wedding cookies -dry, melt in your mouth texture.  They are really expensive compared to name/store brand cookies, so I have to maintain my self-control and eat only one every few days :("
,,,,,Great snack for on-the-go!,"I tried the Nana's Bananas cookie bars for the first time this week. I love them! I don't have any gluten issues so I can't speak for that, but I really enjoyed the real banana taste of these cookies. Some people complained about the drier texture, which I will admit is a little different than an actual cookie, but it I always have it with something to drink anyway so the drier texture is not a problem for me. The cookies are nice and soft and there are little delicious crunchy bits in the mix. I bring them to work for a nice afternoon snack :) I will definitely be buying them again soon!"
,,,,,Yummm!,"Lots of double fudge cookies! What could be better?.... I bought these because the texture and taste remind me of the Cosmic Brownies I ate when I was a kid, the super unhealthy ones by Little Debbie.  Nana's Fudgy Wudgy Cookie bars are so much healthier and pretty darn close to the real thing(without the fudge topping)... They are delicious and a healthier blast from the past for me! YUMMMMM!"
,,,,,best GFCFEFSF cookie,"My daughter is very picky, but she like this cookie very much. i haven't seen any product GFCFEFSF this good. great product."
,,,,,Great for GFCFSF diet,"My 3.5 yr old daughter with Autism loves these! She is on a special gluten-free, casein-free and soy-free diet and these are a wonderful snack for her."
,,,,,great snack,"My 9 year old daughter has celiac disease, and these are one of her favorite cookies (other than the ones I make!)  They are a great quick snack for her to bring and have on hand so that she DOESN'T feel left out or deprived when cookies are offered to kids in social situations."
,,,,,Love Nana's No No's!,These are the best!  What a wonderful way to provide a treat for yourself and your kids knowing how healthy and pure they are.  The taste is excellant and satisfies that sweet tooth.  Highly recommend that you try these.
,,,,,too dry,tastes like dry brownie w/ invisible pieces of puffed rice which get stuck in your teeth. come on. we can do better than this for cookie bars.
,,,,,Don't do The Bars,"It's Crunchy, I'm now love the smoother Nana's Like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FNEX8C"">Nana's No Gluten Lemon Cookie, 3.5-Ounce Cookies (Pack of 12)</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FNEX8M"">Nana's No Gluten Chocolate Cookie, 3.5-Ounces (Pack of 12)</a> you get the idea I hope!!<br />I don't have coffee or Chocolate anymore!<br />If you don't have a problem GREAT but I found out I do!!"
,,,,,delish!,very tasty and the perfect size snack.  Reliable in availability and  shipping time.
,,,,,These were good but small,These were good for a snack but found it a little expensive for the size they come in.
,,,,,One of my favorites...,The berry vanilla is one of my favorite from Nana's.  I also like the chocolate munch when I am wanting something with a chocolate flavor.  They are dry amd crumble.  That doesn't bother me.  I have been gluten-free for five years and have tried near everything.  Nana's has become part of my weekly grocery list.  They are easy to take on the go.  I think these would be great for parents with allergic children because they are packaged for on the go.  It can be frustrating to be out and you suddenly get hungry and there is nothing gluten-free to be found.
,,,,,"Moderately tasty, gluten free","Our family has members who keep kosher, who are vegetarians, who are unable to eat gluten, etc.  This cookie covers all the bases, but tends to be soft and not entirely tasty.  However, they can be used to make a gluten free pie crust, which is a great feature.  I have the feeling that if they were baked a little longer they would be better.<br /><br />Really, though, how good can a gluten free cookie be?"
,,,,,"Fudgy Wudgy's with milk, always good!","Since I cannot eat sugar, and there are so few healthy options out there, this is perfect for my chocolate fix!"
,,,,,Our daughter LOVES these cookie bars!,"Our daughter has several food allergies, so Nana's Chocolate Munch Cookie Bars are perfect!  Out of all the Gluten-free cookies out there, my daughter just LOVES Nana's.  NO eggs, NO dairy, NO refined sugar, NO hydrogenated oils, NO Cholesterol, NO Casein, NO Soy, NO Corn.  They are made from natural ingredients and sweetened with fruit juice.<br /><br />Now, don't get me wrong, for the average person these do not taste like a regular cookie.  I do not personally like the texture, but the chocolate flavor is good.  I will say that this is a wonderful product for people with food allergies, but not someone who can have regular cookies."
,,,,,cookies,THis product is definitely not as good as some other gluten free cookies!  Try Pamela's!
,,,,,Great snack for toddlers,we have a two and four-year-old and they enjoy these cookies.<br />Good tasting<br />very convenient packaging ( individually wrapped)  Great for stuffing in glove compartment for emergencies.<br /><br />the right size for our kids<br />No bad stuff<br />no complaints.
,,,,,So Yummy!!,"These cookie bars are fudgy and yummy and tasty and healthy and...<br />So good!!  I am a big fan of these.  When I order a case of these I always think, ""man that is a lot of cookie bars!  I am probably not going to be able to finish them all.""  Probably being the operative word.  Well low and behold (with the help of my husband and 6 year old daughter) they are gone quickly and we are ordering more.  If you are adding more whole wheat to your diet, these work.  If you are looking to get rid of refined sugar in your diet, these work.  If you order them and don't like them: you must have been one of those really picky kids that grew up to be a picky adult!  They are fabulous!  To eat them is to love them."
,,,,,My son loves these cookie bars!,"My 8 year old son has numerous allergies plus autism and these cookie bars are a life saver!  They're made with fruit juice as opposed to cane sugar, so I don't feel bad about giving them to him.  We've tried many gluten free cookies, these are by far his favorites!  Unfortunately the local stores don't keep them well stocked, so I'm glad I found them here.  If you're not used to gluten free products, you probably won't like them.  The texture is very different than wheat, but if you haven't had wheat in quite a while, these are very tasty and not as crumbly as other gluten free products.  They are fabulous cookies and I'm so glad Nana's makes them...don't ever stop!"
,,,,,Cookies you don't have to feel guilty about eating!,"I was excited to find Nana's line of gluten-free cookies, and have tried all the varieties that they offer. Of the various flavors and styles of cookies, these are my favorite. I find their individually packaged cookies (the large, round ones) to be way too heavy for one meal and end up splitting them for two snacks. These 8 pack cookies are the perfect size for a little snack or to keep in your purse. I can understand why some reviewers might not like these cookies because they do have a very healthy taste, and some might object to the texture of the berry crystals. I happen to like the berry crystals, and it's nice to eat a cookie that you don't have to feel dietary guilt over! A great ""hearty"" cookie that goes well with coffee or tea.  Also, I am gluten intolerant and have never had any negative reaction to these cookies whatsoever. In my opinion, a good product. However, because it is natural and doesn't have preservatives, the faster the item is shipped to you after packaging, the better. I have noticed that Nana's cookies do become more dry the longer you keep them around, even sealed. Probably a good idea to try this product before buying a case of it, because I have noticed that people either seem to love or hate the Nana cookies."
,,,,,"Good, but not the best of the Nana's varieties","I love Nana's GF lemon cookies, so I figured I'd try these berry vanilla bars too.  They're a nice, soft texture but I am not crazy about the taste.  I feel strange about the berry flavoring in a cookie with no real berries, just little dried crunchies sporadically in the cookie.  I think I will try the chocolate bars next time around."
,,,,,Don't do it!!,"I know what you're probably thinking: They're vegan, they're gluten-free...they're a dream come true! The taste of these bars is very banana-y<br />but I doubt you'll be able to ignor the texture long enough to enjoy that. The texture is akin to eating a handful of dirt (I'm no dirt-eating pro...but when I was trying to chew that's all I kept thinking). Please...if you're thinking about trying these...go down to your local natural foods market and pick up a box there first...while you're at it you may want to get some of your favorite soymilk...and lots of it!<br /><br />PS<br />If you're in the market for a yummy vegan bar...try the Betty Lous brand...The strawberry is super good!"
,,,,,love it,"they are fabulous and not bad for you, what else could you ask for!"
,,,,,My children love these!,They taste great and are healthy. We keep our home stocked with Nana's Cookie Bars.
,,,,,My kids LOVE them,"When I found out two of my children were allergic to dairy and eggs, it was quite an adjustment.  Fortunately, we found Nana's Fudgy Wudgy Bars fairly soon after their diagnoses.  The kids think they are delicious, and I love them as a parent because they are a bit healthier than most ""treats"".  They are also conveniently packaged so that if we go to a birthday party, the kids can just grab a bar, and take it with them so they aren't left out when cake is served.  I give a package to their teachers too at the beginning of the year so that if there are any special occassions celebrated at school, my kids still get their treat.  The fact that my kids consider them a special treat, they must really be yummy, although I have yet to try them myself.  BTW, we tried a few other flavors of Nana's bars and cookies, but this one is the only one my kids like (or should I say love)."
,,,,,I LOVE the others NOT the Bars,"I bought a box, waist'd my $$ but people love me that I could give them this!!!<br />AFTER having a bough of HAVING to rush to bathroom I re-read the posts! AND looked at ingredients closer!<br />Gluten Free Whole Grain Dextrins<br />IF you don't have a problem GREAT! If you do you may end up re-reading the 1's later -}<br />I like the idea of Bites had them before. going to try out Pamela's.<br />I Love the Nana's Cookies but IT's VERY hard Not to eat the Whole cookie! The  <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FNEX8C"">Nana's No Gluten Lemon Cookie, 3.5-Ounce Cookies (Pack of 12)</a> & <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FNB3BC"">Nana's No Gluten Ginger Cookie, 3.5-Ounce Packages (Pack of 12)</a> It's TWO servings!! Plus the texture is soooo smooth it go's down VERY easy! I don't have Coffee or Chocolate anymore! Have Green Tea Decaf.<br />NEED to go to the Nana's Banana Bars + modify or delete my post!<br />Only Bites I hope Pamela's ginger works out for me!<br />I Do LOVE this TOO <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FVUM0C"">Lundberg Eco-Farmed Honey Nut Rice Cake, 9.5-Ounce Units  (Pack of 12)</a> +<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FVUM02"">Lundberg Eco-Farmed Buttery Caramel Rice Cake, 9.5-Ounce Units  (Pack of 12)</a> + <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FVZW7K"">Lundberg Eco-Farmed Brown Rice Cake, Salt Free, 8.5-Ounce Units  (Pack of 12)</a>"
,,,,,not gluten free,be careful...even though this is listed under gluten free section it is NOT gluten free
,,,,,NOT GLUTEN FREE!,"After eating this product, I had a stomach ache followed by hours on the toilet. Those of you with a gluten intolerance and Celiac disease know exactly what those symptoms mean... somehow this product is contaminated with gluten! It is NOT gluten free! Please spare yourself the pain and suffering. These cookies are not worth it.<br /><br />For those of you who are tempted to continue eating this product even after you have been informed that it is not gluten free, please keep these facts in mind:<br />1. If you eat gluten, it damages your intestinal lining.<br />2. If you keep on eating gluten the damage to your intestines will get worse and so will your symptoms.<br />3. If you further continue to eat gluten you will end up in malabsorption, increase your risk for intestinal cancer, and lead to all sorts of problems including infertility, autoimmune disorders, oteoporosis.<br />In other words, cheating on your diet is not worth it!<br />Don't eat Nana's products!<br /><br />Instead, I suggest you buy something like Pamela's chunky chocolate cookies. They are one of my favorites."
,,,,,Nanas cookies,The most awesome cookies on the planet. We need a treat that is not full of sugar and Nanas fits the bill for us.
,,,,,not what I expected,I was a bit disappointed in these.  They crumble very easily and have an unusual texture.  My son (6) does not like them.
,,,,,Ingredients are not up to date!,"In the past I have purchased these cookie bars through Amazon and have had good business. However, Amazon has not kept up with the ingredients changing in these cookie bars. It is very important to me what ingredients are in the foods I purchase. I am not happy with Amazon's business this time. Ingredients change often! Amazon needs to keep up to date with the ingredients if they are going to have them listed on their website."
,,,,,Dry as a Bone,"I don't think I've ever eaten anything drier than these cookie bars, ever in my life. They taste okay, but I just can't choke them down, even with coffee."
,,,,,12 gallon plastic fermenting pail,"I love it! It's strong enough to start at least 10 gallons of wine, yet light enough to be flexible, very important for pushing the lid down inside for a sanitizing solution. Future models should come with calibrations so you know how much liquid is inside but that was easy to overcome with a sharpie and a measuring container."
,,,,,More of a trashcan,This device's lid does not seal.  I am not sure why it is being sold as anything other than a trashcan.  Did work well for beer as long as it was transferred to a secondary right at the end of fermentation.
,,,,,the best,"I got disgusted with the garlic powder sold in bulk at health food stores and natural food groceries.  It rarely has much garlic flavor and was way too hot and the quality was very inconsistent at stores that did sometimes sell something good.<br /><br />I'm now half way through my second jar of Tone's, which is consistently excellent.  It has a strong garlic flavor and is not hot unless you use a lot on something like broccoli.  It is way better than raw garlic cloves.  They must have an excellent source of garlic for their powder.  If you have doubts about your current garlic powder, smell it.  If it doesn't have a strong garlic smell, it's just white powder.  Get this Tone's and you'll get your delicious food back."
,,,,,Much better than garlic powder!,"I used to buy this product at the local WalMart, but they no longer carry it.  It delivers more garlic flavor per ounce than ordinary garlic powder, and I use it whenever fresh garlic is not practical...on my burgers, in potato salad, etc."
,,,,,Garlic granules,The garlic granules make cooking with the garlic flavor without adding extra salt.  The Tones quality is exceptional.  Arrived quickly
,,,,,"Love, love, love","My 9 1/2 month old daughter has loved this since she tasted it when she was 7 months.  I have tasted it, and it's delicious.  It's convenient for on the go or to have handy as a snack.  The ingredients are mangoes and &lt;1% Organic Lemon Juice.  The consistency is nice and thick (like that of apple butter) so it isn't dripping off the spoon.  Also if you feel confident enough, you or your child can squeeze it right in his/her mouth.  Ella's products are expensive, but I think their products are worth it, and my daughter has loved every variety we have tried except the pumpkin combo.  Love all the fruits--pears, apples and these mangoes.  This also provides 40% of Vitamin C."
,,,,,Great first food,"My baby loves this. It's a great first food to start with when teaching your baby to have solids. The pouch makes it easy to get the product out, without making a mess and the lid is easy to refasten, so you can use it again over a few feeds."
,,,,,Great first food,"This is excellent for a baby's first taste. The pouch size is perfect and it actually lasted me two days, as my baby is still just learning to eat solids, therefore didn't have it all. The top makes it easy to refasten, so it doesn't go to waste and can be used again. I love the pouch, it's easy to get all the product out wihtout making a mess."
,,,,,Great first food,"This is excellent for a baby's first taste. The pouch size is perfect and it actually lasted me two days, as my baby is still just learning to eat solids, therefore didn't have it all. The top makes it easy to refasten, so it doesn't go to waste and can be used again. I love the pouch, it's easy to get all the product out wihtout making a mess."
,,,,,Passed the Taste Test,"No matter how wholesome a snack may be, it's worthless unless the girls approve. In this case they both give the Science Diet Jerky Treats two paws up. I like that beef is the first ingredient in the recipe and there are none of those unrecognizable ingredients created in a science laboratory.<br /><br />The treats are a nice size and have just enough chew to satisfy. For Piper, our shih tzu with a few missing teeth, I break the treats into smaller pieces so she can manage them.<br /><br /> On the package:<br />Use within 3 weeks of opening.<br />100% satisfaction guaranteed<br />Keep this bag out of the reach of pets and children."
,,,,,Worthwhile treats,"At first sniff the two girls turned up their noses at the new snack. To be fair, this happens with the introduction of most new snacks to this fussy and suspicious pair. By the third and fourth and subsequent offerings, the hesitation stopped. Though the girls genuinely like these treats now, there isn't the mad excitedness for them like they show for some others or for french fries.<br /><br />I like that the first ingredient of these snacks is  ""real""beef ( not the undesirable artificial beef),and they are made with natural ingredients. The treats are small and chewy and are good for training, rewarding, and bribing. For most dogs the consistency is probably perfect, just enough chew to add interest. For Piper, our shih tzu with a few missing teeth, I break the treats in half so as not to tax the teeth she has left.<br /><br />Science Diet backs these treats with a 100% satisfaction guarantee."
,,,,,Community is the best,"I'm usually a caffeine guy, but I had to switch to decaf while my wife is pregnant.  This is definitely the best decaf out there - full flavored, smooth, and very aromatic.  It's the best!"
,,,,,not as good as it usually is,I love Community Coffee but the batch I received of the Special Decaf was old the bags had lost their vacuum packed state.
,,,,,How many cans do you get?,"I'm sorry to hear about the difficulty in finding the details about the Hill's Science Diet Savory Chicken Entr&eacute;e Adult Cat Canned Food on our website.<br /><br />I checked our website and found that the item Hill's Science Diet Savory Chicken Entr&eacute;e Adult Cat Canned Food is currently only offered by the third party sellers on our website.<br /><br />Amazon Merchants and Marketplace sellers are independent, third-party sellers who offer a variety of new and used merchandise through Amazon.com. When buying from a third party, your order is fulfilled directly by the merchant. As a result, Amazon Merchants set their own shipping terms. In general, these charges reflect the handling costs for assembling and packaging each order, as well as shipping costs.<br /><br />Products listed for sale by Amazon Merchant should be identical to the new items sold by Amazon.com, with any differences noted in the description of the item's condition.<br /><br />When you shop with an Amazon Merchant their merchant's shipping terms will apply to your purchase. Rates, restrictions, and methods vary from merchant to merchant and are not set by Amazon.com. For instance, while some merchants will ship to international destinations, others do not.<br /><br />You can always view details of a merchant's rates and policies from the product detail page of an item you're interested in buying, and from the order form before you submit your order.<br /><br />As Amazon.com doesn't handle the shipping of Amazon Merchant items, you'll need to contact the specific Merchant with any questions you may have before ordering. They'll be happy to help answer your questions."
,,,,,Yum!,I got this product a while back. It was very delicious. I love trying to cook Korean food. I would recommend this product for those who are people new to cooking Korean food. The hot pepper paste came in perfect condition.
,,,,,Sunchang Gochujang Paste,"This is wonderful stuff, exactly what I was looking for. Of all gochujang pastes available, this one is spicy-sweet, with a wonderful depth of flavor. A good addition to soups, stews, sauces and marinades, occasionally I just eat a spoonful straight from the box! It's a good topping for noodles and rice bowls, too."
,,,,,Very watermelon flavored!,I love all of Joray's flavors. Watermelon is my favorite! Joray's fruit rolls are more natural than other fruit snacks.
,,,,,OLD AND STALE!,"My kids love these fruit roll ups and I remember having them as a child so I was delighted when I saw I could buy a large box. However, when they came we were disappointed!  The were were very old and hard...  We only opened one and it broke into pieces. Because it's a food item, you can't return which I think is ridiculous...we couldn't even eat them! I order lots of stuff from Amazon and have had a great experience except for these fruit roll ups. Don't buy food from Amazon! (The only reason I gave it 1 star is because I had to click on something and they did arrive on time)."
,,,,,Great hard sour candy,"These are delicious.  They have the same consistency as a Spree or Runt, and they are sour all the way through.  I'm sure I'll be ordering some more."
,,,,,Cry Baby Tears,"This candy is similar to the Cry Baby tears that you find in the boxes only, as the seller mentions they are coated which doesn't seem to bother me. One thing you want to keep in mind unlike the individually boxed Cry Baby tears these ones do not contain the grape flavor. Great Candy it's too bad that this is so hard to find in stores."
,,,,,"Awful shipping standards, harsh taste.",The item shipped in an unsealed plastic bag within a brown cardboard shipping sleeve. Arrived with product loose and falling out of the cardboard.  No effort had been made to seal the plastic bag or the shipping sleeve. Unbelievable.<br />The product itself is very foul tasting with a horrible lingering aftertaste. Could be the coating?<br /><br />I am very disappointed in the purchase and would never buy again. Especially from this vendor. Stay away from these!
,,,,,Works great in my espresso machine,My wife uses this coffee in our espresso machine to make cappuchinos with cocoa powder and it is great.  She says it has a nice strong coffee flavor but smooth not bitter.  I don't drink coffee but I took some to work for the drip machine there and several of the coffee drinkers love it.
,,,,,Great for our dogs!,"Our two Golden Retrievers have been on Beneful Weight Control now for at least 3 years. We didn't see any out of the ordinary pooping problems that others mention.  They love it and both have lost considerable weight -- both were considered ""obese,"" but now one is normal weight and the other is only slightly overweight.  My only real complaint is they stopped selling it (at least around here) in the larger 40-50lb bags.  Now you can only find these 31lb bags but the price is the same.  We go through about 2 bags a month, so it's a little pricey."
,,,,,unless you want to pick dog poop off the floor...I don't recommend,We have two dogs and after a few weeks of switching to the Beneful Healthy Weight we've noticed very unpleasant results. They whine to go outside much more than they ever have and actually had bowel movements right in front of us if we don't get them outside in time.  Our dogs have gone from needing to go outside a few times a day to 6 or 7 times daily to handle the number of bowel movements they have. My theory is this dog food just goes right through the dog and not much of it actually is being utilized by the body. Which makes me wonder how many nutrients my dogs are actually receiving.  Poor dog food in my opinion and should only be used if your dog needs a laxative. I will most likely be going back to Purina One.
,,,,,Great Dog Food!,I put all my dogs on this food about a month and a half ago. I began to notice my older/overweight dog become more playful and energetic. He has already lost some weight. Also all of the others have more solid stools and they actually enjoy eating this. I would recommend this to everyone.
,,,,,"Dog will eat it, but poop like crazy!","Ive noticed that my dog has had more frequent bowel movement than usual. He is on a strict schedule for potty break and has been very good on it for the past 4 years until i tried this food. Now he poops in my apt in front of us because he has to go so bad, like the poster above, its one hell of a laxative when my very well trained yorkie cant even hold it in"
,,,,,"False Advertising, Terrible Dog Food!!","I bought this dog food because the bag showed pictured of veggies and chunks of meat, and with a name like ""Beneful"" I thought I was purchasing a nutritious brand of dog food. My dogs did eat this food, but after reading the ingredients I completely regret purchasing it and feel just awful for feeding it to my dogs. The first three ingredients are Ground yellow corn, chicken by-product meal, and corn gluten meal. How disgusting is that?! The main ingredient is a corn filler. One thing my vet told me a while back that I never forgot: ""When you eat corn, what comes out of the other end? The same thing happens with dogs."" Basically, dogs cannot digest corn, it is just a filler and causes them to actually eat more to feel full, poop out more, and retain less nutrients. The only meat in Beneful at all is a by-product, its not even a real meat! By-products are the stuff leftover once all the actual meat is harvested. We're talking beaks, chicken feet, eyeballs, even chicken poop! I would not recommend this product to anyone, for any reason, ever. It is an absolutely awful dog food. I can't believe the pictures of veggies and full chunks of meat on the bag can be allowed to be on the packaging of such a disgusting product; it is very misleading and should be considered false advertising.<br /><br />I recommend to stay far away from Beneful, and most Purina products. When purchasing a dog (or cat) food, the most important thing to consider is the first 3 ingredients; just make sure those first three are decent ingredients that you would eat yourself. Now that I know what to look for, I usually buy my pets all natural, organic foods such as Blue Buffalo, Halo or Wellness."
,,,,,"Dog loves it, but it doesn't love him","I started giving my dog this a couple of weeks ago. He really loved a different Beneful and so I gave this one a try. He LOVES it and is excited when its time to eat. (He would barely touch Purina Little Bites) I took him out of state to my mom's place and he pooped in the house 3 times! I took the blame for not paying enough attention to him. However, since we've come back home he's pooped in my apt 3 times! (in 1 week) He NEVER does that. I thought that maybe he was being spiteful, but I really think he just can't help it. The food is one hell of a laxative if thats what you're looking for. I'm glad I only bought the small bag because I WILL NOT be giving this one another try. It only gets 2 stars because he likes it and because I'm sure he would lose weight if he keeps pooping this much. TERRIBLE."
,,,,,Love these!,"This is one of my favorite potates dishes but I always have a tough time finding them in my local supermarkets. So, like usually, I go to Amazon and sure enough, they're available at a much lower price in a shipment of 6 boxes. As I know they'll be gone in no time (my family loves them too) I put them on automatic delivery. No more searching the supermarkets, love it!"
,,,,,Easy Sour Cream and Chives Potatoes,"These are very good. They are very close to home made, but when I'm in a hurry, I really appreciate having them at hand."
,,,,,Surprisingly tasty,I was amazed at the actual taste of this product . . . the amount of protein and the lack of fat is really good.  They have a lot more flavors and all of the combinations are really good.
,,,,,Fresh Unsweetened Tea On Demand,"I purchased a Keurig so my husband could make just one cup of coffee for breakfast instead of making a French press full and pitching half of it.  I use it to make unsweetened iced tea.  With the plethora of sweetened iced tea k-cups, it's great to have one with the good, clean and fresh taste of unsweetened tea.  I use the largest setting and then add about 1/2 cup of cold water to the Pyrex liquid measuring pitcher.  With the addition of water, it cuts the strength to the proper consistency.  I don't bother with all the glasses with ice and then brewing over ice.  I just make the tea and pour it from the pitcher.  Good stuff."
,,,,,Makes strong Tea,"This tea makes extremely dark and strong tea on the 11oz setting which is my largest water capacity setting. I use the Keurig Iced Beverage Tumblers filled with ice and can't drink it straight.  My solution is to fill a gallon pitcher with ice, add some water, make two iced brew K-cups and pour it over the ice water for what I consider perfect iced tea.  You can forego the water for stronger tea, or add more water to dilute the tea depending on your mood or tastes.  This tea has excellent flavor, it's just too strong right out of the Keurig for my tastes and in my opinion requires diluting.  Excellent for making a pitcher of tea!"
,,,,,Convenient and tasty too!,"Great taste. There is a slight bitterness to this tea, but it's black tea - it's bound to be a little bitter, especially for being so strong. The strength is perfect for customizing to taste. Some people like strong tea while others like theirs very mild, so you can add more water if you want. I like to make a fairly strong tea (the melting ice dilutes it just fine) and sweeten it myself. I like sweet tea, but usually when I get it, it just tastes like sugar water. These give me the strong tea flavor I love, and I can add the perfect amount of sweetness. Great product!"
,,,,,"Too Strong, so Make More","This is definitely too strong if you make one glass from one K-cup. I've experimented. Now I run two K-cups through the large cup brew three times each. I add each cup to a pitcher. Then I add enough water to fill my three-quart pitcher. I sweeten it with Stevia, and add juice from one lime. Great iced tea!"
,,,,,Great tea,"Great tea...I have checked other stores ie: Target, Kohls and they are more than this tea costs plus the boxes you get on Amazon are bigger quanities."
,,,,,perfect ice tea,"the best, tastiest and fast making ice tea by the glass, does not leave an after taste, like a delicate summer breeze in a glass, fresh ice tea anytime of day or night, great for company"
,,,,,perfect unsweet tea,"I prefer to sweeten my own tea and so this is perfect. It makes a strong cup of iced tea, and some may choose to add more water after brewing. Easy to make and great to have around. Taste is very good."
,,,,,Love it!,I love my keurig and especially like to fix my iced tea with these kcups. They are very flavorful  and every glass is fresh brewed!  I drink iced tea all year so I a glad I found an affordable optuIon!
,,,,,Different,Disappointed.  The big boxes had a very different flavor than the smaller boxes.  I am not sure why but not good.
,,,,,Arrived quickly,I ordeed this product because this tea is really good. The shipment came as expected. I love the taste of this tea. It's not stong at all.
,,,,,Perfect for Dieters on a Hot Day,"I adore these K-Cups! On a keto diet, it can be hard to find pre-made drinks that aren't loaded with sugar. With these guys, I can control the sugar content but still enjoy that perfect glass of iced tea."
,,,,,Very Bitter Tea,"We recently purchased the K-Cup machine and I was quite excited as I drink iced tea rather than coffee. This blend of black tea is quite bitter and not at all what I was looking for. It works as advertised, just not the right tea for me."
,,,,,This is terrible tea,"This is a really easy way to make terrible iced tea.  Sometimes convenience outweighs taste, but not always.  What this product doesn't tell you before you buy it is that the ingredients are: black tea with tea extract, hibiscus and citric acid.  It's not just tea.  And it doesn't taste like just tea, either.  It tastes like powdered iced tea from a jar.  It has an overtaste of lemon -- that's probably the citric acid.  And that fake tea flavor that comes from powdered iced tea mix.  I'll probably drink it when it's really convenient.  But I won't serve it to friends!  And I won't drink it if I have time to make a glass of real tea and pour it over ice."
,,,,,Might as well chew it....,"This tea is so strong you might as well not waste time brewing and just chew the leaves right out of the container. It's strong not in a normal strong tea way. Instead it's bitter. If you use a Keurig model that has cup size settings a recommendation is to go with the largest setting for the largest cup you can fit under the Keurig and work backward from there until you get to the taste you prefer. Also note that while it's in smaller print, there is a warning not to use a glass to make the iced tea which is a warning worth paying attention to."
,,,,,The BEST dog food!!,"I have two Chihuahuas and they absolutely love their little bites!  The ingredients are the best quality available .. organic chicken, flax seed, nutra-drops, and TONS of vitamins and minerals!  The best part about this food is that toy breeds can be on this from the time their little puppies til they're full grown- for life!  Try finding another dog food that does that!  This is a MUST if you have a toy breed dog.  It helps balance their glycemic index even at the most stressful periods of time.  Overall, it is just a really healthy food that will make your dog look and feel beautiful inside and out!"
,,,,,the best tasting turkish delight,"I ordered this assorted bartons turkish delight 6in1 it is delicious .I took it to my parents house for my sister's birthday among her gifts which I also bought at amazon everyone at the party loved this Turkish delight so much they even wanted to buy it for them and I told them amazon go there they have everything,amazon thank you as allways bringing us International flavors without leaving our homes."
,,,,,Contains CHICKEN,"Although these are a quality dog treat please be aware that these do contain chicken. I did not see this ingredient listed on the product page. This is just to advise those pet parents if your kiddo has a poultry or chicken allergy like mine do that every variety to date contains both chicken and natural chicken flavor.<br />The ingredients are as followed for the Low Calorie variety<br /><br />Ingredients:<br />Organic brown rice powder, rice powder, vegetable glycerin, gelatin, water, tapioca starch, oat fiber, chicken, natural chicken flavor, dehydrated carrots, organic flaxseed, cranberries, apples, cinnamon, parsley, chia seed, carrageenan (natural seaweed extract), l-carnitine, peppermint, l-ascrobyl-2-polyphosphate (source of vitamin C), green tea extract (decaf)."
,,,,,Great Greenie alternative!,"We have a 3 year old Maltese that we used to shower with Greenies (1-2 a day) even though it says to limit them to one per day.  The last time we took him to the vet, we told her what kind of food he's on and what kind of treats he gets.  She was concerned with the amount of Greenies he gets and told us to limit them to one every other day.  She said that Greenies contain wheat and that could be problematic for dogs later on in life.  So I searched on Amazon for a wheat free dental chew...<br /><br />Our dog has tried three different kinds of dental chews (including this one) and likes them all.  He's tried <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001G96UK8"">Greenies Dental Chews for Dogs, Teenie Pack, 96 Chews</a> and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001MWRT18"">Zuke's Z-Ridge Mini - Carrot Fresh Breath Dental Chew Bones, 15 Count Pouch</a>.<br /><br />After reading mixed reviews, I decided to give these a try.  My first impressions were that these were pretty large for a ""small"" dog.  They are twice the length of a Greenie.  When our little guy got one, he ate half of it, then tried to hide the other half.  He did like it though.  I will say that he usually devours his Greenies but he takes his time on these (he did the same with the Zukes at first).  After a few days, he seems to really like them.<br /><br />If you're doing a side by side comparison between the Get Naked dental chew, Greenies and Zukes,  I think these are better.  They're really low in calories and they're wheat free, corn free, soy free and gluten free.  They're cheaper than Zukes as well.<br /><br />My recommendation is to cut them in half.  That will give you 36 treats for your dog per bag.  Three bags will give you 108 treats vs. Greenies 96 at around the same price.  He likes the Zukes but they are just too expensive seeing how you only get 15 per bag.<br /><br />I suggest buying one bag to see if your dog likes them.  If they do, then they are a great alternative to Greenies."
,,,,,My dog loves them!,My four year old chinese crested mix loves these dog treats. He is somewhat of a picky eater when it comes to dog treats but he loves these. They smell nice and minty and take a little while for him to eat so it gives him something to work at. They are made with good ingredients. No meat byproducts or corn! AND they are made in the USA which is definite plus. I will continue to get these for my pup.
,,,,,"Low calorie, tooth friendly, and my dog loves them","My dogs really like these. My six year old adopted Spoodle came to us with bad teeth and a weight problem. She had 14 teeth pulled and is halfway to her weight goal, and has learned to like crunchy snacks.<br /><br />My ten year old lab likes anything, but also needs to watch his teeth and his weight.<br /><br />I like to give them a treat before I leave the house, so that they are happy instead of anxious when they see me get my coat and keys.<br /><br />These treats are perfect at only 18 calores each, and the dogs are excited to eat them. The lab makes short work of it, but the Spoodle gets to give her remaining teeth a workout. ChristineJW"
,,,,,My dog loves these healthy treats!,"My dog has many food allergies, but these made-in-the-USA treats are free of wheat, corn, egg, and dairy.  My dog can't get enough of them."
,,,,,Love these,"My dogs love these !!  When I ran out of them recently, they were ""counter"" sniffing trying to find some.  I have a service dog that has to maintain his weight, and these are perfect for him."
,,,,,My dog really likes these,"My dog really enjoys these and they do not last long. She is not a big chewer, and doesn't like bones, so I wanted to get something that she could much on from time to time so to help clean her teeth. I was attracted to these because they are low calorie and made in the US. When you get them out of the package they don't look like food, but the dogs don't really mind. They are flexible enough to cut in half with kitchen shears if you have a small dog."
,,,,,Low Calorie Dental Sticks,These are great treats!  My dog is older and has a few extra pounds so I decided to buy these for her.  She loves them.  Also keeps her occupied for some time while she is eating it.
,,,,,My dog loves them.,"I have a larger breed of dog, about 90 lbs and she loves these. At first they seem kind of hard, but she has no problem eating them. They don't take her very long to finish, but they are a nice little snack or treat for her while still being healthy. My moms smaller dog, about 12 lbs also likes these, although the smaller ones are best for her."
,,,,,My dog loves them,My dogs loves them. Glad to know that I have found a snack that is appealing to my dog but also something that won't have him breaking the scales!
,,,,,great dog treat,My dog really enjoys these treats and the plus is that they help keep his teeth clean too. Will definatly purchase these again.
,,,,,yummy~,"I just got these and my dogs love them, they smell pretty good and their breath is a little better smelling. They are excited when i open the treat jar and they see these yummy treats. I like them for the low calorie and better breath~"
,,,,,my dog threw up,"Not a big fan.  Will not buy this again.  plus she eats it really quick too, other than the throw up part."
,,,,,bad review,the product was hard as a rock. i could not even break it in half. both dogs had hard time chewing them. puppy could not either will not get product again. unless the two packages i got were old and dried out.
,,,,,Get Naked Doggie Dental Sticks....,These Dental Sticks are perfect for my two dogs that have food allergies and they LOVE them and i like the price for them here at Amazon.
,,,,,Great,"My dog absolutely loves these!  I try to give one to him everyday, either in the morning or before we go to bed at night.  It doesn't take him long to finish it off... but long enough to put dishes away or brush my teeth.  :)"
,,,,,Nice stick without added weight,"My dogs are very tiny and I needed a chew that would have the benefits of teeth cleaning but without any weight gain, and these did great, plus my dogs enjoyed them. If a dog doesn't like the taste and won't chew on a dental stick, then it would defeat the purpose. So these fit the bill all around."
,,,,,My picky eater likes these,"I was skeptical that my dog would chew on these treats, but he does seem to like them.  They smell like cinnamon and are very low in calories.  My mini dachshund suffered kidney damage after contracting Leptospirosis.  He is on a special diet of rice and a small amount of protein.  Dogs on these diets often suffer from dental disease. I needed something to clean his teeth, but also not introduce high protein to his diet. These chews are 18% crude protein, much lower than other chews, and contain fiber (chia seeds and flaxseed) and antioxidents like green tea. A win-win situation for my dog's overall health."
,,,,,Not So Much,We have a year old pug who will eat just about anything but these!  Unfortunately he just would not go near them no matter how hard we tried to peak his interest.
,,,,,dogs didn't like it,"I had high hopes for this product, because it is healthy and affordable.  But neither of my 2 Chihuahuas liked it; one just sniffed at it and walked away; the other dog chewed on it for a short while and then walked away from it.  One dog likes <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003KUO2XS"">Nylabone Nutri Dent Original Minichews for Mini Dogs, 72-Count Pouch</a>, and the other dog likes <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004B3W4N8"">6"" BULLY STICKS - Free Range Standard Regular Thick Select 6 inch (10 Pack), by Downtown Pet Supply</a>.  I was looking for some alternatives that were healthy and more affordable.  I guess I'll be sticking with their current treats for now."
,,,,,DOG TREAT,THESE TREATS ARE MORE FOR A LARGER DOG AS THEY ARE VERY HARD AND THICK.  THE GIRLS (my maltese) LIKE THEM EXCEPT WAY TOO BIG AND HARD TO CHEW FOR THEM..
,,,,,The best of the energy chews!,"I'm a runner doing 30-50 miles a week and am currently (9/10) training for the Chicago Marathon.  I've tried all of the gels and chews that are out there and these are my favorite.  I don't like gels as that squirt of mush activates my gag reflex.  Plus you always need water with them.  I've tried all of the other brands of energy chews (I think); Sharkies (good but sticky and not very tasty), Clif Shot Bloks (nice package, very sticky on the fingers), GU Chomps (super sticky and caused some nausea), PowerBar Gel Blasts (very good but tough to chew if cold).  The Honey Stinger chews are very easy to chew and you don't need water.  They don't stick to your teeth either.  The main selling point for me is that they taste good and don't cause nausea no matter what.  I'm sticking with these ones."
,,,,,Great for endurance athletes,"They're not as compact as gels like ""Gu,"" but these are great for marathoners.  I empty 2 bags into a small plastic baggy. I carry the baggy in a neoprene pouch.<br /><br />I try to eat about 2 chews every 1.5-2 miles, beginning at mile 4.  Water to wash them down helps, but isn't a necessity.  Easy to eat on the run.  Good consistent and natural energy and electrolytes.  No stomach upset, which I always got w/ Gu."
,,,,,Honey Stinger Chews make the difference!,When I'm riding and hit the wall where my legs are just out of gas (glycogen) I can eat a pack of these chews and within minutes feel relief and renewed energy!  I never go on a ride without them.  oh yeah...they taste pretty good too.
,,,,,YUMMY!,"These are tbe best fruit chews I've ever had!  The flavor and texture is great.  My son had these last summer for the first time when he was at the Boy Scout Ranch, Philmont, in New Mexico.  He, of course, said this as a real treat while he was there.  I'm so glad I found them on Amazon!  Well worth the price...a great value!"
,,,,,Good stuff,"Great seller. The product was as described.  The seller shipped the product quickly.  Good, fair price. Honey Stingers are by far the best training/race day nutrition you can buy.  They taste great, easy on the stomach, and organic.  I love them."
,,,,,Best Thing On The Trail,"I hate to just echo everyone else, but these things<br />really ARE that good. Like a lot of folks, I hadn't<br />heard of these before Backpacker Magazine<br />raved about them in April of '09.<br />I gave 'em a try and was blown away.<br /><br />Over the years I've found that I find food<br />--on long hikes--less and less appetizing...<br />especially when the temperature is over 90.<br />The thought of chewing and swallowing is<br />not appealing.<br /><br />Obviously SOME nourishment is still necessary,<br />but I came to dread PowerBars, and then next, the<br />tastier bars they spawned. So I switched to gels,<br />but after awhile, I came to dread those, as well.<br />But these little chews are delicious--I'll eat them<br />even when nothing else sounds good.<br />Between hikes, I keep them out of sight, because<br />otherwise I'd snack on them at home.<br />I'm on here now ordering another dozen for a big hike."
,,,,,I use them for marathons,"I can't stand GU anymore so i found these.  For me, i feel like i got much more energy and so much better tasting.  These taste as good as any gummi candy out there.  Sometimes during the week i'll open a package and eat a few every day before my workout, and i really notice the extra energy towards the end of the workout."
,,,,,Love these!!!,"These are really good!!!  Also, be sure to try the Cherry Blossom flavor if you can - that one tastes absolutely wonderful!!  This doesn't stick to your teeth at all and it has a very pleasant taste and even smell to it.  One pack has just enough pieces.  Great to bring along when you're traveling.  I gave some to a 7yr old and she loved it!  Because it's not too sweet (none of that dreaded corn syrup in here), people of all ages would easily approve of this - I certainly do and would not hesitate to recommend this to everyone!"
,,,,,these are great!,"They have a great fruity flavor.  They are pretty sweet but you can taste the honey in them and the sweetness doesnt overpower the fruit flavor.  The texture is perfect, not too gummy like gummy bears that you have to chew forever but also not stick-to-your-teeth like sharkies. Kinda like gum drops and there's lots of them in a bag so you dont feel like you got cheated.  I think I like these more than any other sports chews I have tried.  They also dont leave your fingers sticky after handling them.  I hope they come out with new flavors."
,,,,,Love these energy chews!,These energy chews are absolutely delicious! They hold up really well in your pocket or backpack when you're backpacking or mountain biking! I really couldn't imagine eating any other energy chew ever again!
,,,,,"Great, but special?  I'm not so sure.","These Honey Stingers are great.  I've used them a handful of times on runs lasting over an hour.  They do seem to provide some much-needed energy.  They're easy to chew, taste great, don't stick in my teeth or make me extra thirsty, and the packet is small enough to be portable.  I really like that the ingredients are pronounceable and healthy enough (organic tapioca, cane sugar, fruit juice, etc.).<br /><br />However, I don't see how they're any different from organic fruit snacks (like Annie's bunnies), which I can get much cheaper in a multi-pack from my local wholesale club.  The ingredients and nutrition information are virtually identical.  For that reason, I gave them just 4 stars."
,,,,,So yummy,They taste so good. Easy on my stomach when I am running. Help keep my energy up on long runs. LOVE THEM!!!
,,,,,Tasty Treats on the Trail,These taste good - kind of like cherry koolaid. 95% organic ingredients make it a bit healthier than koolaid. Better than the Clif Bloks (I say that b/c the cola Clif Bloks have a medicinal after taste).
,,,,,Awesome!,"I love these things.  Unlike other products, this actually tastes really good.  I would recommend this to my family and friends."
,,,,,Sweet as honey!,"A great pick-me-up when exerting energy. I eat these while biking. Honey base is apparent in the after-taste, but isn't over-powering. The chews are great-tasting and provide energy without caffeine."
,,,,,Great,"My kids love these!  They have a great flavor and, for us, are preferred over Sharkies.  My daughter sometimes gets stomach aches from fruit snacks, but has had no trouble with these."
,,,,,Good substitute for candy but Sharkies are healthier,"These are a good alternative to candy, but still a lot of sugar in a better form.<br />Sharkies energy sports chews are not quite so sweet BUT are Healthier becasue the man ingredient is brown rice syrup which is a complex carbohydrate with low glycemic index. Being very hypogylcemic brown rice syrup and agave nectar are the only two natural sweetners that don't cause a ""sugar crash"". So for this reason the stingers only get 3 stars and sharkies get 5! If you want sweeter in sharkies get the kids version, but they are like stingers- no brown rice syrup. Oh, the brown rice version fill me up faster because they are a complex carbohydrate and don't cause blood sugar fluctuations."
,,,,,Most awesome tasting Energy Chews we have found!,We do a lot of bicycle riding in the heat and longer rides as well. We don't want to crash from lack of carbs in our system. Other energy products don't taste as good as these do. They are conveniently packed in little pouches so they are easy to grab and take along when we ride. Good stuff!
,,,,,Skip this if you don't want to Bonk!,"I am a huge fan of Stinger products. However, these little gummy gels do nothing as compared to the Stinger Honey Packs. If you are a road or mountain biker and need a good burst of quick energy to keep from bonking on that last hill, these will not help. In fact, the only benefit that I (or any of my riding buddies) have found is that they make your mouth water. Conceivably, this could help with water consumption when riding through the desert (Moab, Fruita). It is my guess that these are not intended for exercising. Maybe, people just use them at work to keep from eating Starburst or something less healthy?!"
,,,,,Good For Hiking,"Heard about these from a triathlete who said that they worked fast.  An avid hiker, I have used other energy gels with limited success.  Taken about 15 minutes before an uphill climb, they provide the extra boost you need.  The chews have a great texture and taste like gummi bear candy.  Highly recommended."
,,,,,Tasty,"These taste great!  And it's true what other reviewers have said about the consistency being good and them not sticking in your teeth.  However, as an energy boost for running, they don't do a thing for me.  In fact, they actually cause a stitch.  So I just eat them whenever I feel I need a sugary 'fix'."
,,,,,TASTES GREAT,"I ordered these to use for marathon training. I have a sensitive stomach,but have had no problems with these. They do give me energy during those long runs!"
,,,,,Yummy,These organic energy bites are delicious and work great.  I use them for golf tournaments or long bike rides.  A few bites every half hour and you will have ample energy for hours of activity.
,,,,,"Not too sticky, great for long runs!","I'm not a fan of messy gels, or stopping for PowerAde during a race. When I do my own long runs or if I'm doing a half, mess and inconvenience factor aside I also don't want to consume junk. These are organic and contain honey, and while soft & squishy somehow don't get stuck to each other when shoved in a gel pocket during a run. The taste is so delicious that my son tries to swipe them as well!"
,,,,,Quite tasty!,I tasted a few of these and they are pretty good.  I was expecting something a bit flavorless and I can imagine happily snacking on these for a multi-day packing hike.  I will write more after I have taken them on the trail.
,,,,,AWESOME !!!,"Tried the pink lemonade flavor today during my long run...unbelievably awesome. Tasted great, no stomach issues, no sticking to my teeth, water not required to ""wash it down"" and most importantly - it was the best run I've had in a long time. Can't wait to try other flavors."
,,,,,Energy +,"I start popping a package when I can feel that wall coming on.  These are easy to open while cycling and give a decent boost within a relatively short period of time.  As always, organic is a definite positive.  Not a lot of water is needed to get these down and I haven't had any heavy stomach feelings after consuming them.  Very happy with this purchase and will get more when this case is gone."
,,,,,Great for Marathon Training,"I'm training for my first marathon in November 2011 and these chews have kept me going during my long 18 to 20 mile training runs.  I dissolve them in water rather than carry them as chews and sip steadily after mile 8.  They taste like concentrated hawaiian punch and do not upset my stomach whatsoever.  I also eat them prior to a workout if I am feeling low energy and will even snack on them in lieu of candy.  Seriously, they are that good.  I have tried GU as well as Powerbar gels and both do the trick but are nowhere near as tasty.  The consistency of the chews are slightly softer than DOTs candy."
,,,,,Best tasting energy boost,Stingers are better tasting and more convenient than gels and work just as well to provide energy when exercising over long periods of time.
,,,,,Great tasting with help keeping energy up.,"I was excited to try these little honey chews to help with my energy levels during exercising and running.  I am 60 years old and about 50 pounds overweight.  I find it hard to keep my energy up day after day while running and exercising.  First of all these are so tasty without being overly sugary.  I was surprised though to see that the ingredients weren't mostly honey and the first ingredient listed which is suppose to be what the item has the most of is tapioca syrup.  I guess with the package calling it honey stinger I was thinking that it was pure honey with some taste enhancers.  Still, everything is organic which I suppose should add to it's value.  I found that I felt no energy boost during my activities but I can say that without a doubt that these make you feel like you can keep going and going.  It's not something that feels like you are really energetic but more like you just got a good days rest and are ready to get going.  I don't like feeling like I'm on a sugar high with that nervous feeling in my chest and these do not do that.  I think they make you feel healthy and are a good addition to your diet for exercising.  The only drawback to me is the cost of these $16 for 12 bags makes it hard to justify the purchase as often as you would like to have them.  I will purchase again when my grocery money allows.  I would recommend to buy if you are looking for a healthy pickup to keep you going all day and not just for a quick boost."
,,,,,Highly Recommend This Product,"These energy chews have a great flavor, will give you good energy before or during a workout, and are a reasonable price. I would recommend this to any endurance athlete such as a cyclist, runner, triathlete, etc. Strength Training and Sports Nutrition for Cycling"
,,,,,"Great energy sustainer, tastes delicious & no caffeine!","I didn't want caffeine, don't want the high calories & went through MANY types of energy chews / gels / drinks online to see what would be the best option for myself.<br /><br />I LOVE the honey stingers!  No caffeine, calories can be controlled depending on how many pieces you take, and most importantly, it lasted me through my marathon trainings :)<br /><br />Fruit smoothy is delicious.  Haven't tried the other flavors."
,,,,,Great stuff,I use Honey Stinger Energy chews on all my long distance bike rides.  I ride over 100 miles a week and love all the different flavors.
,,,,,Sweet and delish,"Last fall I bought a slew of different protein bar brands to see which I liked the most.  Of the many brands I tried, most all were roughly the same in taste, texture, etc.  But these Honey Stingers stood out to me.  They have a much smoother texture, and have a great sweetness to them that really makes them taste great.  I'm a huge fan... gonna by a bunch more boxes for snacks and workouts."
,,,,,Excelent product !!,"Yo soy corredora, y he probado muchos tipos de productos, este es el que mejor resultado me ha dado."
,,,,,"Love these, but only got 11 of 12 packets.","When I opened the package, I only found 11 packets of the Honey Stingers. There should have been 12. I counted and re-counted 4 times to be sure. The packets were in a thin cardboard display box, wrapped in a sealed plastic bag, and shipped in a sturdy cardboard box. I don't really want to go through the hassle of returning the item, so I guess I'm out a pack.  It'd be nice if amazon shipped me one more packet! ;-)"
,,,,,Honey Stingers....the perfect natural energy,"These are the most awesome little energy snack possible!  Brought a box of these on a hunt for a week with some buddies for the first time...along with a box of Sharkies. Prior to this, Sharkies where our mainstay when needing a boost and energy replacement.  Have to say, even the Sharkies fan in the group had to admit Honey Stingers fairly surpassed Sharkies in both taste and performance.  Will still probably bring both next time for variety, but definitely twice as many Honey Stingers.  Honey IS the perfect food!"
,,,,,Mmmm mmm good,If you have been out to Philmont on a treck or as staff these are given to you in your trail meal. They are organic and made of honey. They good and healthy. A+
,,,,,Makes a perfect soup base!,"I had gotten a box of Malher Hilachas style sauce from my mother and set it aside for a rainy day - well, today it rained. I mixed the package with water, added rice, some peppers, onion, chicken and potatoes and let it simmer. My entire family just loved it - even my picky grandson! Now, I want to find more!!!!"
,,,,,Better than it looks...,"The box is very impressive. So I had high expectations (especially when it comes to chocolate).<br />The combination of chopped up nuts and small pieces of dark chocolate is brilliant - unlike anything I have tasted before. Amazing flavor - somewhere between velvet (chocolate) and crispy (nuts).  Made me feel almost relaxed... weired...<br />Yesterday, I had it for breakfast, instead of granola, with milk. It was really good. I didn't crave food and I didn't snack until mid-afternoon. I am impressed."
,,,,,Serve On the Rocks,"I have to agree with several other reviews here that state the ""The Switch Orange Tangerine"" is too sweet on it's own. I ended up making a cool summer drink out of the can that I tried - served over ice & mixed with soda water. It was fantastic! The soda water/ice mixture helps cut down on the sweetness and improves on the refreshment factor.<br /><br />A little more about ""The Switch""... The can claims that this product is 100% Carbonated Juice with ""No Sugar Added"" and ""No Preservatives"". One can is 8.3 fluid ounces and provides 140 Calories. Total Sugars per can are 34g; 36g of carbs. One can provides 100% of the daily recommended dose of Vitamin C.<br /><br />That being said, I can't see myself drinking ""The Switch"" everyday. Even without preservatives and added sugars this drink still packs in a lot of sugar in every can. Though to be fair, I rarely drink soda or sweetened carbonated beverages. Still, for a nice alternative to the standard soda I recommend ""The Swtich"". The Tangerine flavor is reminiscent of Tang."
,,,,,"Good ""natural"" soda","For those that want a more ""natural"" soft drink, this is a good option because it has no added sugars. It still manages to pack 140 calories in an 8oz bottle so don't drink this regularly if you're trying to lose weight. The taste has good complexity but like most fruit drinks, is a little too sweet for my taste. I would definitely drink this instead of a typical artificial orange soda though."
,,,,,"Nice Flavor, but Not Much To It","This sparkling juice drink has a decent and refreshing flavor, though somewhat reminiscent of the canned orange juice (can't remember the brand) I had once in awhile as a kid.<br /><br />It's a nice idea to have a soda that has no added sugar, though the juice combination isn't as impressive as the name might sound. This beverage contains a mix of the following juices (reconstituted with sparkling water): apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola. The beverage also includes gum acacia and soy.<br /><br />Despite the fact that there are no added sugars, the calorie and carb counts are quite high - in fact higher than an average soda. An 8.3 ounce can contains 140 calories and 36g carbs."
,,,,,"A healthier alternative to soda, but not overly original","There are no surprises here. The label promises a perfect blend between juice and carbonation, and that is exactly what Switch delivers: a drink that tastes like carbonated orange juice. Those looking for a healthier alternative to soda will like that Switch contains 100% juice with no added sugar or corn syrup. Those looking for a tasty new carbonated beverage probably won't be impressed.<br /><br />At the time of this writing, Amazon isn't yet stocking Switch so I can't offer an opinion on whether or not I think the price is fair. I wouldn't expect to pay much more than orange juice for this drink, though, since there's nothing really original going on inside the can."
,,,,,Bright and effervescent,"Here we have a refreshing drink, not one you'd want to drink three of in a row but just one for a picker-upper or to quench an urgent thirst.<br /><br />The flavor (orange-tangerine) is subject to peoples' personal tastes but I liked it okay. It's not the best drink I've ever tried but it's okay for something different. People will have to make their own choice as to whether to buy it or not in regard to the price.<br /><br />Unfortunately, either the manufacturer, the Amazon Vine people, or both, goofily (is there such a word...? if not, I just invented it) placed two useless stickers on the can which covered half of the nutrition facts on the can. There was plenty of space to put them elsewhere but some non-thinker failed to use his or her marketing sense. So all I can tell you on that topic is that there is a 1% sodium content, total carbs are 30 grams, and there are 140 calories per 8.3 ounce serving (1 can.)<br /><br />I wouldn't buy this product but that's chiefly because I normally drink only non-sugar beverages."
,,,,,A nice blend,"Not too sweet, not overly carbonated - can be best described as a good orange punch mixed with Perrier.  And while it is all natural, it is also reconstituted.<br /><br />And that's the rub, while tasty (tangerine is the most prevalent flavor with hints of white grape and a slight grapefuit finish), this is basically just expensive, carbonated juice.  Can size is the same as a Red Bull, 8.3 oz versus the industry standard 12 oz serving.<br /><br />Is more better? Not necessarily, but then again sometimes less is just less.  At approximately $2 per can, which category The Switch Orange Tangerine is, is for you to decide."
,,,,,"Quite refreshing, great taste","This tastes great and I like that it's more natural than most other sodas available. Basically, it's a carbonated juice.  I generally prefer a larger 12 oz. size though."
,,,,,Pretty Good...,"I enjoyed the taste... It is close to orange soda initially but then there is another sweet taste at the end of each sip.  But unlike orange soda, this is healthier and no added sugars.  Even though this product tastes like orange soda I think it would do well for breakfast.  It may even become preferred over traditional orange juice for children and for businesses that worry about short shelf life.  On the downside, the price is a little high for such a small can when buying 24."
,,,,,Not for me...,"I thought this would have a similar taste to another brand of carbonated juice on the market, called Izze, that has fewer calories, tastes better and costs less. However, Switch has a weird artificial aftertaste. It tastes like a blend between orange juice and orange soda, but not in a good way. Also, with 140 calories per serving (8.3 ounces) and 34 grams of sugar, you might as well drink soda- because this beverage it not any healthier and certainly not cheaper."
,,,,,"Tasty, but I'm not planning to switch","If you like the sort of carbonated fruit punch that you get at, e.g., office holiday parties (where alcohol is verboten), you'll probably like The Switch: It does have a nice, ""fruity"" taste (kind of a ""sharp"" orange -- perhaps the tangerine's influence, although probably more the apple juice), with a bit of a bite due to the carbonation.  If this were one of my options at, e.g., the Medusa-esque soda dispensers found at 7-11, I would definitely indulge occasionally and buy some.<br /><br />But an indulgence it is... and that's why I'm not planning on purchasing more from Amazon.  In particular:<br /><br />-- You're paying nearly a buck a can for a little more than a cup of soda.  Please.  I don't mind paying more for higher-quality goods, but at least make it a decent value for the money... make it 12oz.<br />-- Calorically it's not a great value, having around half-again as many calories per once as Coca Cola does.  If you're some teen who can eat whatever you want, this doesn't matter... but for those of us who aren't blessed with such metabolisms... well... the calories are better ""spent"" elsewhere.  The ""no sugar added!"" bit is somewhere between annoying and downright misleading: The ""all natural"" sugar that's coming from the fruit juices is no better nor worse for you than, e.g., regular old cane sugar like better traditional soft drinks have.<br /><br />So, in brief, yes, it is quite tasty, but it's really not a good deal for your pocketbook nor your health unless consumed only on special occasions.<br /><br />P.S. -- My wife tried some as well, and didn't like it as much; she tasted some of the unpleasant ""metallic"" tastes that others here have mentioned."
,,,,,very different...,"While Switch Orange is VERY orangey, it also tastes of something else interesting. It's fizzy (but not, in my opinion, excessively so) and tasty, and I'd consider buying it. I seldom buy or drink soft drinks or sodas; I just don't care for all the fizz burning my nose. Switch didn't do that. Hurray!!!"
,,,,,Not to sweet thirst quencher,Hubby and I both shared the dring and we both liked it.  I really liked the fact that there was no added sugar in this drink.  It's a nice combination of flavors.  I found it a little too carbonated but he thought it was just right.<br /><br />I would buy it if it came in a larger can. Hence only 4 stars. I think this can is too small.  Too much aluminum thrown out.  I recyle everything but most people I know just toss it.  Otherwise I would buy this drink.
,,,,,Great alternative to orange soda,"I drink too much soda. I've started looking for alternatives and one of the things I've tried is switch. I first tried it because while it's like an orange soda, it's really carbonated juice.<br /><br />I like:<br />-The carbonation<br />-The flavor<br />-all juice<br />-no added sugar, no high fructose corn syrup<br />-no artificial flavors or colors<br /><br />I don't like:<br />-The small can (8oz)<br />-The flavor took a can to get used to it. It's a mixture of orange, apple, tangarene, grape, and Acerola juice. (Acerola is a fruit high in vitamin C, so I assume that's why it's used.) If you don't expect exactly orange soda, the flavor grows on you quickly.<br /><br />If I really want a cola, Switch isn't good enough to be my replacement. But it's a very easy replacement for an orange soda. I can't wait to try some of the other flavors. I usually really like black cherry drinks and I'm interested in seeing what fruit juices they use in that one!"
,,,,,"A Tasty, Enjoyable Pure Juice Carbonated Drink","It is so hard to find a nice juice drink that is either too sugary or, even worse, has additives like artificial sweeteners. The Switch Orange Tangerine delivers on flavor. If you like juice and want a full-flavored orangy-carbonated fizzy drink, this one fits the bill. Very good!"
,,,,,Nice Drink,Refreshing and light.  A little on the sweet side but not overly sweet.  I enjoyed the orange flavor!
,,,,,Bubbly Tangerine slice refreshment,"I am not one for ""canned"" juice drinks, but this one was exceptional in flavor. I am also not a big fan of orange flavored drinks but the tangerine is distinctive and nice.  It kind of reminded me of one of my favorite soft drinks in the world, Ting (from Jamaica) which is made from real grapefruit juice. Very nice, if you need more Vitamin C in your life I would consider buying it."
,,,,,Just OK,"I split this can with my spouse.  I would have given it 2 stars, he gave it 3.  Nice idea, 100% carbonated juice, but the taste is pretty mild.  Not really what I would call refreshing.  Good idea, though, I would try it in other flavors."
,,,,,Bubble liquid,"Although some may like this drink, it will not be a repeat buy for me.  140 calories for an 8+ oz serving is too much when that amount of orange juice is 115.  Actually this drink isn't 100% orange/tangerine juice, but a mix of juices.  Secondly, if this were unaltered juice, seems you wouldn't have to add ascorbic acid to get 100% of your daily Vitamin C since that amount of orange juice naturally provides over 150%. Perhaps the processing requires it. But, alas, the biggest issue for me was taste.  It tasted to me like dishwashing liquid smells.<br /><br />On the good side, the carbonization is just right and the flavor is bold for those who seek that.  There is no sugar added and the non-traditional taste is not overly sweet.  The taste may appeal to some, but I'm not a fan."
,,,,,Gets an A-plus for 100% juice and no HFCS,"No caffeine, no high fructose corn syrup, 100% juice, nothing artificial. What's not to like?<br /><br />I hate to write anything negative because I don't want to discourage development of any products that avoid HFCS. But, to be honest, The Switch Orange Tangerine doesn't smell very good. If you're familiar with Airborne Cold Remedy, well, it smells like that. I think I was expecting a fragrance like Tang instant beverage. I certainly didn't expect it to smell like it does. It's not all that bad, it's just not real good.<br /><br />I also think this product would actually taste better if it weren't carbonated.<br /><br />The calories are about the same as a typical soda. But they're fruit juice calories instead of HFCS, so that's a big plus in my book."
,,,,,very popular at my house,"Everyone at my house, even my mother-in-law, enjoyed this drink.  It tastes very much like a quality soda, but is made with 100% real juice.  Small cans mean you don't consume a lot of calories at once, because although this is healthier than regular soda, you shouldn't drink too much -- it's still a lot of sugar."
,,,,,"Too much orange, not enough tangerine.","With all-natural ingredients and mostly real fruit juice, I'm not expecting this drink to taste like soda, punch, or anything like that, but I when I tasted it, I felt myself wanting more. I could really taste the orange-flavor coming though, but they somehow missed me on the tangerine side. Tangerines are very sweet, so I was expecting that to be the predominant flavor, but instead what I tasted was mostly orange, which left a somewhat sour/bitter aftertaste in my mouth. This drink wasn't bad, but given a choice, I'd rather drink orange juice or tangerine juice with seltzer. I don't see how this drink improves beyond that. Switch's other available flavors tasted much better, so in some ways this was a disappointment."
,,,,,Artificial tasting,I didn't like this carbonated juice.  Although it appears to be all juice (not artificial flavors) it tastes somewhat artificial.  Perhaps it tastes more like canned orange juice (which tastes NOTHING like REAL orange juice)!  I fully expected to like this as I do like fizzy fruit juice drinks.  This one did not do it for me.
,,,,,Excellent choice,Perfect size can and a refreshing drink. I think it's proof that simple is best. This would be my first choice for a drink if I were out and about.
,,,,,Nice tasting drink,I like the taste of this drink in many ways it takes me back to my childhood with the orange ice lollies I used to eat as it has a similar flavour. The thing you should be aware of is that although it has no added sugar because it has so much fruit juice it does have a lot of calories.  I also found that the can needed to be bigger as I wanted more at the end!
,,,,,"Too sweet, too expensive, too much packaging","Yeah it's gluten free and whatever, but unless that's a really big issue for you and you're having trouble finding sugary drinks to enjoy on your gluten-free diet, there's no real draw to this drink over say, orange fanta or any number of other carbonated juice type drinks. I thought it was massively overly sweet, and I have something of a sweet tooth. The orange flavor wasn't particularly authentic or delicious, and it left a sour aftertaste. I got a free sample this time, and I cannot see actually paying money to buy this product again. On an environmental note, packaging and shipping these things in tiny little cans makes for more waste, and I don't appreciate that either. Not a fan."
,,,,,Sweet and definitely full of tangerine goodness~,"Switch definitely managed to keep its carbonated juice drink's intended flavor fresh. Though just a combination of sparkling water, the juice concentrates of several fruits (including apples, grapes and oranges) and, oddly enough, soy, it definitely maintains its taste of tangerine.<br /><br />I'd love to see what other flavors Switch has to offer, with my only hesitation coming from ""natural flavors and colors."" But, hey, I'm willing to grant them a little leeway in that department thanks to the NO HIGH FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP!"
,,,,,Flavor with fizz,"It's very refreshing to find products without sugar added, but make no mistake, this tiny can still packs a solid 34 grams of sugar, enough to give you an energy rush followed by the typical adrenal fatigue crash.  Perhaps you can sip just a few ounces every few hours to avoid the crash?<br /><br />The flavor is very good and will tempt you to chug the whole can in one quick drink.  Not exactly a health drink, but it's a nice improvement over the usual junk sold as a soft drink."
,,,,,Good stuff,"Nice alternative.  Very lightly carbonated.  I'd say if a normal carbonated drink ranges from 80 to 100 on the fizzy scale, this one's about an 11.<br /><br />At 26 grams, it's still a lot of sugar (mostly from apple and grape juice, I think).  I'll order a case just 'cuz I thought it was good and I'm calling it 4 stars - but honestly, I'd rather have it 50% splenda or stevia sweetened."
,,,,,Tastes like an energy drink,"I was surprised at the ingredient list and ""100% natural"" stamped on the side, because this drink tasted just like a compeletely artifical energy drink. This is going to be a short review for me, because I don't really have much else to say. I could barely tell it was orange, because as with energy drinks it just tastes like an amalgamation of fruits. My wife was especially confused- she gets sick at the smell of drinks like Monster, and she had the exact same reaction here.<br /><br />I know this isn't an energy drink, but for the life of me, I just can't reconcile the taste with the ingredients. If you're the sort of person who drinks some fresh fruit juice and thinks ""I really wish this tasted more like a completely artifical enegry drink instead of natural fruit juice"", then this is the product you've been dreaming of."
,,,,,No point in having carbonated juice,"At 22.99 for a pack of 24 cans of Switch orange Tangerine, you're paying about 96 cents per can. Is it worth it? Not really. First of all, you drink juice for health reasons. Vitamins, frutose over corn syrup and the like. Carbonating beverages generally aren't considered good for you, so it's odd that the two would be mixed.<br /><br />Besides the carbonation, and the aluminum can (which has been proved can lead to Alzheimer's) there's a lot of deceptive marketing going on. The can claims that Switch is 100% juice, but it's not actually 100% Orange and Tangerine juice. In fact, the drink is mostly apple and grape juice. You can taste this instantly, along with the metallic tang of being in a can. This is done because both of those juices are quite cheap in comparison to orange and tangerine. So really, you're getting more a a carbonated fruit punch then an orange tangerine drink.<br /><br />You're also gettinbg ""Natural flavours and colours"" which kind of kills the whole ""100% juice"" claim.<br /><br />With a taste that is both metallic and not really resembling the flavours it claims, I can't really recommend this product, You can generally buy boxed 100% juice for less, which contains more flavour, no aluminum and no carbonation."
,,,,,Orange-Tangerine Carbonated Fruit Drink,"I didn't really like the taste of this product much.  It has an artificial taste to me, even though it is juice and water.  It is a carbonated drink and it somewhat reminded me of the taste of baby aspirin, although not quite that bad.  I did drink the whole can.  The 8.3 oz can is narrow, compared to the 12 oz soda can you are used to seeing.<br /><br />The can says it is 100% juice, 100% RDA Vitamin C, all natural with no sugar added, no corn syrup, no preservatives, no artificial colors, and gluten free.  The nutrition box indicates (for the entire 8.3 oz can) 15mg sodium, 36g carbs, 34 g sugar, Vitamin C 100 %, Vitamin A 20%.<br /><br />The ingredients are as follows and are listed in the following order: 100% juice (filtering sparkling water sufficient to reconstitute juice concentrates, apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola juice concentrates), gum acacia, natural flavors and colors, ascorbic acid (Vitamin C). Contains soy. (First ingredient listed is supposed to be the one there is the most of.)<br /><br />You may wonder why I spent so much time on the ingredients.  Well, if you don't read labels, you really should start.  Some products may taste really good but may be full of nasty things you really do not want your children to eat (or yourself).  The term, gluten free, for example is VERY important to those who have gluten intolerance.<br /><br />Kudos to the manufacturer for making a healthier product and I would have liked to have given this flavor a better review, but the taste was not there for me.  The black cherry flavor has a lot better taste.<br /><br />Still, if you are looking for a seemingly healthier beverage to pack in your child's lunch, this could be worth a try.  Think of it as a flavored carbonated water.  I gave it 3 stars because it is not unhealthy and it is not bad - just not something I like the taste of.<br /><br />I would sooner put this product in a child's lunch than a soda.  My daddy used to put soda on the car's battery terminals to dissolve the acid :-("
,,,,,"Tangy and Pleasingly ""Real""","After taking my first sip of Switch Orange/Tangerine, I raised a suspicious eyebrow because it didn't taste the way I expected it to. Then it dawned on me that my mouth was prepared for more of a fake, amped-up ""Orange"" soda, but what I was tasting was real, natural juice. Yes, I knew that from the label, but that's not the same as experiencing it.<br /><br />The taste was a nice blend of orange and tangerine, not too sweet, and the carbonation adds a nice touch. A bit like a non-alcoholic Mimosa cocktail.<br /><br />My only reservation is that the calorie count is (perhaps unavoidably) too high for me to drink this on a regular basis - though let me be quick to point out that this is a ""no sugar added"" product. For those who aren't counting calories, a nice refreshing ""Switch"" from soft drinks!"
,,,,,carbonated juice beats sodas,"This drink is a nice blend of juices (mostly orange) and carbonated water.  There are no other ingredients.  It has a decent amount of natural sugars from the juice, so it is not a low-calorie drink.  I thought the balance of flavors and sweetness was quite nice and would definitely buy again."
,,,,,Soda Juice II,"In the Beginning there was Fruit Juice, and there was Soda Pop, and never the twain should meet... unless you mixed them yourself. But then somebody got the Great Idea -- when reconstituting fruit juice after Pasteurization, why not reconstitute it with carbonated water? Thus was born...<br /><br />Soda Juice!<br /><br />And I tasted it, and it was Good! Frankly, I found Black Cherry, Kiwi Berry, and Watermelon Strawberry pretty similar in taste, Orange Tangerine more distinctly tart, but I enjoyed all of them.<br /><br />In the cans you have 5 other flavor choices: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG940E"">The Switch Black Cherry, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH2C"">The Switch Fruit Punch, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG943G"">The Switch Grape, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH40"">The Switch Kiwi Berry, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH54"">The Switch Watermelon Strawberry, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>.<br /><br />Since virtually nothing is added, the slight nutritional differences must be due to the characteristics of the different juices being used. Fruit Punch, Orange Tangerine, and Watermelon Strawberry have the highest calories, 140; Kiwi Berry is next, 135; Black Cherry is next, 130; and Grape has the lowest, 125.  Orange Tangerine and Watermelon Strawberry have the highest total carbohydrates, 36g; Black Cherry and Fruit Punch are next, 35g; Kiwi Berry is next, 34g; and Grape has the lowest, 33g. Finally Watermelon Strawberry has the highest sugars, 35g; Fruit Punch and Orange Tangerine are next, 34g; Black Cherry and Kiwi Berry are next, 33g, and Grape is the lowest, 32g.<br /><br />Note: all of these are fruit juice blends so those with fruit juice health concerns need to be aware of more than just the title juice. All contain acerola, apple, and grape juice. In addition to their title juices Kiwi Berry contains raspberry and strawberry, and Fruit Punch contains cherry, lemon, and pineapple.  Orange Tangerine also contains soy.<br /><br />Compare and Contrast: a similar product is worth considering: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014WYY1E"">Izze All Natural Sparkling Juice, Apple, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014WYXYW"">Izze All Natural Sparkling Juice, Blackberry, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014X5O1C"">Izze All Natural Sparkling Juice, Clementine, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014WYXTC"">Izze All Natural Sparkling Juice, Grapefruit, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>, and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014WYXQK"">Izze All Natural Sparkling Juice, Pomegranate, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>.  The difference? The Izze products are fortified with vitamins: B6 and Niacin in addition to C and have roughly three fifths the calories, total carbohydrates, and sugars of The Switch products."
,,,,,It was - Ok...,"Switch Orange/Tangerine is billed as the natural alternative to sodas and/or artificially-sweetened juice drinks.  However, I found it to be pretty ordinary.<br /><br />First the good stuff: It is 100% Orange & Tangerine juice, has no sweetners, is 100% natural, has 100% of your daily allowance of Vitamin C, and has a nice carbonation tang to it.  If you are health conscious and want to drink something like a soda w/o actually drinking a soda, this would probably be right down your alley.<br /><br />However, I found the taste to be somewhat... odd.  I could definitely taste the tangerine in it mixed with the orange, but the combination of the two or the bottling or something gives this Switch a taste akin to eating an orange that is ALMOST too ripe.  You know that kind of fermented taste of an orange that you need to eat NOW because by tomorrow you'll need to put out for the birds?  Not exactly something that I'd look forward to drinking.<br /><br />So for me, although this was somewhat good, its not exactly something I would get again.  I'm not really a health nut so if I wanted an orange soda, I'd just go out and get an Orange Crush."
,,,,,"Didn't like the flavor, aftertaste, or quantity","This drink contends to be a natural alternative to soda.  While it definitely is ""natural"", I would not agree with the ""alternative to soda"" aspect.  Specifically, the liquid is much closer in consistency to juice, and in fact, has more sugar than juice (over 30 grams per 8.3 ounces).  Sure, it's lightly carbonated, but that alone doesn't make this drink a soda.  Also, if you wanted something natural, I'd go with Hansen's sodas, or a number of natural sodas, which are definitely sodas.  This drink is basically juice with carbonation.<br /><br />The other notable issue I had with this was its size.  8.3 oounces doesn't get you far (3 gulps, maybe?), and coupled with the thickness of the drink (since it IS juice, with quite a bit of natural sugar), you don't get very much thirst quenching effect from this.  The 100% juice also accounts for the strong aftertaste.<br /><br />Finally, natural sugar is still sugar, and has just as many calories.  This stuff wouldn't make the cut in most school vending policies, with its high sugar content.  And I wouldn't give this to my kids.  Instead, a couple of CapriSun Roaring Waters juice pouches (which each have about 1/4 the amount of sugar) would do the trick for them.<br /><br />Not recommended, sorry."
,,,,,Suprisingly rich flavor,"I'm not sure what I expected - maybe something thin and bubbly - but Switch delivers a rich, full orange-tangerine flavor.<br />It's got a lot more flavor, and good flavor at that, and a bit less carbonation than other carbonated fruit drinks.<br />An 8 ounce can has 140 calories, no fat, 15mg of sodium, 35 grams of carbs, 34 grams of sugar (they claim no sugar added), and no protein. It also contains 100% of your daily requirement of Vitamin C and 20% mdr of Vitamin A.<br />I tried it chilled with breakfast and thoroughly enjoyed it."
,,,,,Really Good,"This product is like orange juice that is fizzy. It reminds me of another product, Izze , but this product is slightly sweeter and isn't as carbonated as Izze. I would recommend this product, just make sure it is cold because it tasted alot better cold than warm."
,,,,,Tastes like Orange Crush but without the Sugar/Corn Syrup,"I put my Orange Switch in the refrigerator overnight to make it nice and cold, and I had it with breakfast.  I love the taste of it - mostly orange, with a hint of carbonation.  It tastes sweet naturally and I'm sure it's good for you.  I would buy this product  :-)"
,,,,,AN EXTREMELY PLEASANT CARBONATED DRINK!,"It really is!  I am not a fan of carbonated drinks because most of them are simply not healthy.  I even know people who have developed physical problems because of too much consumption of them, especially those who even drink them as a starter in the morning.<br /><br />BUT THIS ONE IS DIFFERENT. It has a real full-bodied orange/ tangerine flavor, although the label says it is combined with other juice concentrates:  apple, grape and acerola juice (I had to look that one up:  it is the cherrylike fruit of a small tree of the West Indies which has a high concentration of vitamin C).  Anyway, it's just darned good!<br /><br />I experimented a little on the best way to serve.  I drank it cold as is, then poured it over a glass of ice cubes.  Neither of those ways seemed quite right.  Then I poured the beverage on ice, left it for a minute, then removed the ice by pouring juice through a strainer.  This left it nice and chilled, not just cold, and not weakened by melting ice.<br /><br />I live in the Colorado Desert where temperatures are scorching in the summers.  Orange juice doesn't quite quench my almost constant thirst, but has been the best thing available to me until now.  Yes, I will definitely SWITCH TO SWITCH, forgive the pun!<br /><br />It's actually good for you too.  Hope one day it will be in ALL schools."
,,,,,Tastes Like Carbonated Tang,"This was a weird drink - I had high expectations, but the flavor was just odd - it really did taste like fizzy Tang drink mix.  However, my kids really liked it, and I think it is a great alternative to junky soda, so I will most likely buy more - but not for ME to drink.  ;)"
,,,,,Small can,It is a good thing the can is so small. The product is several cuts below Sunny Delight. Terrible!
,,,,,Not for me,It may be all natural but it didn't have a natural taste to me.  The can size is small and the calories were more than I thought there should be.  I like the mild carbonation ok but I wouldn't switch from orange juice.
,,,,,Fizzy Citrus,"I had to try this Orange Tangerine flavor because I had tried the watermelon/strawberry and didn't like it very much, but wanted to give this company another shot. I do prefer this Orange tangerine; it has a nice citrus flavor with that carbonated fizzy on the tongue sensation. I give it a 3, better then the watermelon/strawberry and on ice I drank the whole can."
,,,,,"Fruity and bubbly, not so orangy","I liked it!<br /><br />Didn't know what to expect.  It has a variety of fruit juices such as apple, orange and grape, but clearly had a strong orange taste.  I liked the fact there was no added sweeteners such as HFC or sugar.  I'm not a pop/soda drinker, but I think if I served this instead of the traditional orange stuff in a 2 liter people wouldn't notice the difference.<br /><br />It's a bit pricy for orange soda and I'm sure orange juice would be better, but if you are looking for something healthier, this one's for you."
,,,,,Better than expected,"This is a very good tasting carbonated juice drink that makes a great alternative to soda.  There is not an overload of carbonation.  Just enough to make it taste more like orange soda.<br /><br />It's made with 100% juice (more apple and grape than orange, surprisingly), it has 100% RDA Vitamin C, it's all natural with no sugar added, no corn syrup, no preservatives, no artificial colors, and it's gluten free.<br /><br />The flavor of the drink I tested was called orange tangerine, and it was an 8.3 fl. oz. can, with 140 calories and 34 grams of sugar.<br /><br />The only reason I didn't give it five stars was that I really cannot picture myself paying for it.  It's rather expensive in comparison to the orange juice I buy at the grocery store, and if I want an alternative to regular soda I would go with <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HTIR6C"">Blue Sky Jamaican Ginger Ale, 12-Ounce (Pack of 24)</a>.  Now, THAT is good!  However, if you're looking for an orange-flavored soda-substitute THIS is your product.  100% juice; how could you go wrong."
,,,,,If only it were diet too!,"With the new fad of making sodas that are good for you too, we have plenty to choose from in the drink isle. Switch's Orange Tangerine has a great taste, a fruity nose and is refreshing. But with the same calorie content [140] as a can of Coke - well, I'm sticking with Coke. Had Switch produced this product calorie-free like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00247D46E"">Nutrisoda Immune, Tangerine & Lime, 12Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a> it would gain a greater market share with established soda drinkers. While Switch offers 100% RDA of vitamin C, the Nutrisodas pack on extras without padding our bodies."
,,,,,"It's OK, but I prefer the Tropicana version.","I didn't read the label before I tried the drink, so I was a little surprised by the carbonation.  It had a tangy flavor which was possibly enhanced somewhat by the carbonation.  However, I've been a long-time drinker of the Tropicana Orange-Tangerine juice and Switch is simply not as good, IMHO.  If I wasn't already a Tropicana drinker, I might be interested in the Switch version of Orange-Tangerine, but I'm not going to ""switch"".  Sorry for the pun."
,,,,,A tad syrupy,"On the plus side, they get the flavor and carbonation right here.  One fears a Tang taste, but it's more subtle than that and the bubbles are likewise discrete enough that it's no Fizzy-Lifting Drink.<br /><br />On the downside though, one would prefer a sharper after taste to the sort of syrupy way it stays on the tongue."
,,,,,Great taste - not overly sweet,This is a very refreshing carbonated juice drink with no aftertaste.  I love the flavor and the fact that there is no added sugar.  It's more subtle than orange so really kills a thirst.  The size is perfect for times when you don't really want a 12 ounce drink.
,,,,,A decent diversion if you're tired of colas...,"It's a refreshing drink when served cold. A bit sweet when warm. A little tart, but tolerably so.<br /><br />The flavor is less orange than tangerine, yet I can distinguish several different ""layers"" of citrus in it, including the orange. It's an interesting sensation.<br /><br />I am a little bugged by the fact that an 8.3oz can (2/3rd-size) manages to pack more junk calories in than a full-sized can of cola. It's also supposed to be 100% juice, but reconstituted grape juice is practically pure sugar and there are ""natural flavors"" noted in the ingredients list as well as a soy warning which to me implies some sort of MSG, probably added with the citric acid.<br /><br />So, maybe it's not an especially healthy beverage. It's still tasty and provides a diversion from more typical sodas."
,,,,,"""Switch"" to a ""Real"" Energy Drink","Bottled like an energy drink, Switch, doesn't contain the things you'd find in other carbonated beverages. There's no sugar, no caffeine, no corn syrup, no preservatives or artificial colors.<br /><br />Instead, what you get is a refreshing, all-natural, lightly carbonated tangerine-orange drink loaded with Vitamin C. Think of it as orange soda without all the things you don't want. Switch has just the right amount of carbonation to make the beverage refreshing without being filling.<br /><br />It's a zippy beverage made with real tangerine, apple, and grape juices, and would make a refreshing beverage, lunch, dinner, or snack-time drink.<br /><br />There was a slight aftertaste that I'm chalking up to either the can or the citrus, but it didn't get in the way of enjoying the drink.<br /><br />Make the ""switch"" to Switch."
,,,,,Sweet fizzy juice product,There is gum acacia in the list of ingredients.  Not sure if it adds anything to the flavor.  The orange and tangerine flavors do come through the fixx.  It seems to be a bit sweeter than orange juice.  Have achieved more satisfying and natural tasting fizzy juice drink by adding sparkling water to OJ.
,,,,,Tasty but too petite for me.,"I _really_ like this drink.  My only complaint is that I'd need to drink 2-3 cans at a time -- 8.3oz is a wee bit on the petite side for me.<br /><br />If it came in a 20oz can, I'd be much more likely to buy it, and the packaging would be much less costly.<br /><br />Really tasty product, though, and I've got no quarrels with the ingredients.  Yum."
,,,,,This drink is perfect and that's just that,"Boy, I really loved this drink.<br /><br />It tastes much like orange soda, only with no oddball aftertaste.  It's plenty sweet, but the sweetening is so naturally orangey that it doesn't seem overpowering like a coke can.  It's much smoother and easier to swallow than a conventional soda, with carbonation that is plenty strong, but not quite as strong as a can of Crush.<br /><br />It's a drink that is subtle not only in tone but in flavor.  You can taste the various other fruits mixed in with the tangerine and orange, but it's still very much an orange drink with no fruit punch aspirations.<br /><br />It tastes perfect, and there's no doubt that someone carefully went crazy saying 'too much!'  'not enough!' to every little facet of the drink before it was just right.<br /><br />No corn syrup or other bad additives.  At 36 carbs per 8.3 ounce serving, it's still got quite a lot of sugar in it.  If you're looking for an orange soda style drink that is really just carbonated juice, this is the best possible product I am quite sure."
,,,,,Yum - carbonated fruit juice,"I enjoyed this drink.  It has a tangy citrus flavor which tasted a little less orangy than I expected, but was still good.  I liked the carbonation in the juice - it was about the right amount for me.  The drink has about the same calories as a regular soda, but I feel better about drinking it because of the natural ingredients.  The drink does not have the syrupy feel of a traditional orange soda which is a bonus.  This is definitely a lighter tasting, very refreshing drink.  The only reason for reducing the star value by one was because of the price which is a bit extravagant for me.  I recommend this drink."
,,,,,"Surprisingly good for a ""soda""...","Silly me, I didn't read the packaging terribly closely. I was actually rather pleasantly surprised. Basically, it's carbonated fruit juice from concentrate, or as they say: ""100% juice (filtered sparkling water sufficient to reconstitute juice concentrates, apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola [cherry] juice concentrates).""<br /><br />Gone is the usual second ingredient in such beverages: ""high fructose corn syrup"" or the old standby ""sugar""...<br /><br />Basically, it reminds me of a carbonated version of Tropicana Pure or one of the Odwalla beverages, watered down just slightly (not quite as sugary, but still pretty darned sweet).<br /><br />Overall, I rather liked it. It's a bit smaller than your typical Pepsi or Coca-cola can. But I could see it being handy for kids' lunches and such. Slightly better than typical ""soda"" with corn syrup. Though I'm not sure whether it would be preferable to straight up fruit juice...<br /><br />Personally, I'd rather have the fruit juice (like a Hansen's smoothie or something, granted they're a bit sugarier)... But some folks like carbonated beverages. So, why not make one out of actual fruit juices rather than all sorts of more artificial stuff?<br /><br />Rather liked the Orange Tangerine one. I'm interested now to try some of the other flavors and see if they're as good. Especially <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH40"">Kiwi Berry</a>... But possibly also <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH54"">Watermelon Strawberry</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH2C"">Fruit Punch</a>."
,,,,,"Decent enough, but pricey","The biggest argument I have with Switch is that at a hair under $1 for each 8.3 oz can, it's awfully expensive.  I probably could overlook that if Switch was really, really delicious, but frankly it's not.  The orange-tangerine blend lacks the zip and character of those citrus fruits, particularly tangerine and its delicate sweetness.<br /><br />Instead, there's a heavy taste of the apple-grape combination of juices that forms the fruit base.  There's no added sugar, no high fructose corn syrup or any other sweeteners save the apple and grape concentrates, and that's fine, I'd prefer my juice to not have added sweeteners.  In my opinion, juice doesn't need to be sweetened.  I suspect that the fruit concentrate combo is cheaper than making the drink out of pure citrus juice, so I wonder why it's as expensive as it is.<br /><br />What makes me scratch my head is the notation ""Contains soy.""  What?  Why?  Why on earth put soy in a fruit juice cooler?  Honestly, I'd buy some seltzer or carbonated water of some sort and mix it with my own fruit juice before I'd buy Switch.  But if you'd rather have it pre-made, then by all means give it a try.  It's decent enough, just not my glass of juice."
,,,,,Overly sweet orange soda,"Switch does not taste like carbonated juice.  It tastes like overly sweet orange soda, which may or may not be a positive for you.  The 8.3 ounce can contains 34 grams of sugar.  I did not like the taste, my husband thought it was okay.<br /><br />The reason I'm giving it 3 stars instead of 2 is because it does not have any preservatives, added sugars, or high fructose corn syrup.  It does however contain soy, so if you are allergic or concerned about GMO soy, then you may want to avoid this drink.<br /><br />If you are looking for a natural, sweet, carbonated beverage, I would recommend OOBA Hibiscus drink over this."
,,,,,"A Tasty, Mildly Carbonated Fruit Juice Soda","This is almost the kind of fruit soda I'd make if I were going into this business. The difference is that I'd go the Odwalla route and not use reconstituted juice concentrate and only use orange/tangerine juices. Since it's a carbonated beverage I'd probably use a stabilizer too so it wouldn't have to be shaken before drinking. That would result in a higher price, though not sure how much higher than the almost $1/can price it's being offered as a grocery item (imagine the price in a vending machine).<br /><br />For this product the first ingredient is apple juice and the second is grape juice, then comes the tangerine and orange juice and finally acerola juice (a fruit high in Vitamin C and apparently popular in Puerto Rico and Barbados).  There's acacia gum (as a stabilizer probably, don't want to have to shake a carbonated drink) and then additional natural colors and flavors, ascorbic acid and soy.<br /><br />My 13yo daughter and I shared a can and liked the taste.  On a par with Orangina. My personal preference would be for a little more carbonation, but this was ok. I'm a traditionalist so I definitely prefer a 12oz. can, the quantity at this price makes me feel a little ripped, but then, I prefer to make my own lemonade in the blender adding in some raspberries or strawberries or mint to vary the flavor.  Cheers!"
,,,,,kind of like faygo or slice,"If you're looking for a healthy alternative to your favorite orange soda, this might be a good choice for you.<br /><br />This is one of the better tasting Switch flavors, although it still tastes a bit like a flat orange Faygo or Slice drink.  It's good, but there's a bit of an aftertaste to watch out for.  It doesn't give you that weird filled up feeling that carbonated beverages seem to have, but if you're looking for some refreshment on a hot summer day (90+ degrees where I live as I write this), I'd stick to tried-and-true Kool-Aid instead.<br /><br />Decent, and a good orange soda alternative, but not life changing."
,,,,,Switch to The Switch,"""No Sugar Added""<br />""No Preservatives""<br />""100% Juice Carbonated""<br />""All Natural""<br /><br />But it tastes just like soda . . .<br /><br />If you are a soda-lovers, but want a healthier alternative, this may be just the ticket. It's an especially great product for kids, because they really think they are getting soda, but without all the added sugars!"
,,,,,Good alternative to regular orange soda,"My daughter thinks this tastes like Sunkist Orange Soda, my grandson likes it and drank the rest of it (most of the can).  I thought it was okay (by I am not a fan of orange sodas); I would undoubtedly like it better in another flavor, like Grape, or Fruit Punch, or Kiwi Berry.<br />I think this is, of course, a much healthier alternative to any regular soda. And judging from my dautgher's and my grandson's experience with it, it would be hit with most kids."
,,,,,tinged with vitamin C,"Switch is a tangy drink that's more reminiscent of Sprite than Orange Juice. It's carbonated all the way and you will even burp after it as you would've after consuming any soft drink. The drink doesn't feel sugary, but a quick glance at the nutritional facts reveals that each can contains 34 grams of sugar. The claim on the can is that there are no additional sugars added, so I'm assuming that's the sugar from the orange and tangerine. The can"
,,,,,"Metallic, Sweet, Bad Aftertaste","In proportion this drink is about equal to a regular soda in calories and sugar content, but I would prefer a regular soda than this stuff. There is a slight citrus taste, but mainly from acidity and a horrible after taste of metal and sickly sweetness that lingers for several minutes after wards.<br /><br />Soda water with natural juice should be a refreshing, pleasant, and nice refreshment, but none of these traits are in this drink.<br /><br />I would be embarrassed to serve this beverage to anyone I liked for any occasion, but would consider giving it to people I really didn't care for to see their reaction.<br /><br />Avoid this one. Orange Crush or a different orange soda diluted with soda water would taste far better or soda water and regular orange juice would also be a treat that puts this nasty stuff to shame."
,,,,,Great orange soda without being too sweet,"Our family, wife, 2 year old and 4 year old, have had other Switch sodas in the past, and liked them quite a bit. They had a bit  of an apple flavor overrode the main That's definitely not true for the Orange & Tangerine. It tastes almost like fresh squeezed orange juice with bubbles. Far better than Orangina or orange soda.<br /><br />My kids kept asking for more sips of the soda throughout dinner, and we all have enjoyed it. I appreciate that there's no caffeine, and it's all natural, so I have no problem giving it to my kids. I'd definitely recommend buying the soda, we'll keep some around the house regularly."
,,,,,Kids love it this healthy choice,"4 Stars is a compromise between my rating of 2 and my grandchildren's rating of 5 stars.  I thought the flavor was too heavy on the apple/grape juice combo and light on the orange/tangerine flavor.  Also, it left a mild, canned aftertaste.  But my 9-year-old granddaughters loved it and consider it a treat equal to soda.  It is 100% juice concentrate which has been reconstituted with carbonated water, so it is much healthier for them than regular soda.  While it is true it still has sugar, natural sugars from the juices are healthier than processed sugars found in soft drinks. The can I was sent contained 8.3 ounces which is a better size for them than a regular 12 ounce can of soda.  For children, this is a tasty and healthy alternative."
,,,,,Nothing Special,"This is a decent flavored carbonated juice.  It's 100% juice which is good for the more health conscious people.  It tastes pretty good, sweet and a little tangy.  But the flavor does fall short.  Like some reviewers have said, the drink tastes more like a punch than pure orange or tangerine juice.  Do yourself a favor, if you want orange flavored soda, then go for an orange flavored soda.  If you want tangerine, then buy tangerine.  The infusion of both flavors really causes both flavors to fall short slightly short."
,,,,,Really VERY tasty!,"I don't know how to describe 'Switch Orange Tangerine' without sounding like a cliche advertising slogan, but the truth is it REALLY IS very refreshing.  Just the right amount of carbonation too.  This stuff tastes like what you would get if you squeezed part tangerine and part orange and then poured in a bit of sparkling soda.  Very fresh tasting.  Not too sweet at all.  The label says there is no sugar added.  Fine, as it doesnt need any.  The label also says it has Apple and Grape juice. I taste mostly the tangerine myself but you may find your mileage varies.  Finally, it is supposed to give you a full days worth of vitamin C.  Ok,a LOT of drinks can do that nowdays, but without any refined sugar of high fructose corn syrup? (or artificial sweetener?)  I could totally see replacing my orange soda with this stuff.  I have not seen this in the market yet, but I would be willing to try other flavors and add Switch to the many beverages I enjoy.  Really, for a fruit drink, it is pretty darn good!"
,,,,,"It's good, but pretty much tastes like orange soda.","There's nothing wrong with this drink, but it really just tastes like any other orange soda.  Kudos to The Switch for not adding artificial flavors, sugar, or corn syrup, though.  It tastes pretty clean and refreshing, but a bit expensive for what it is.<br /><br />Don't let the small-sized can (8.3oz) fool you, this isn't an energy drink, it's just an orange soda."
,,,,,Just Pretty Good,"Like the SWITCH beverage I previously reviewed, this is a moderately tasty drink.  The balance of the carbonation and the fruit juice is decent enough, giving more of a tickle to the tongue than the rush of bubbles that soda usually gives.  It's definitely a lot more like juice than soda, which goes against its purpose of being a replacement for soda.  Overall, it's pretty drinkable, but I would never seek this beverage out.  There are better juices, and there are better sodas.<br /><br />One major plus, though, was that it wasn't as thick and syrupy as the Watermelon/Strawberry SWITCH.<br /><br />6/10"
,,,,,"Different, Maybe Better","I was really looking forward to this beverage, as I love tangerine juice and the thought the combination of orange, tangerine and carbonated water would make for a great soda.<br /><br />I have to say, it is different, but not what I expected. While it was different than a typical orange soda, I didn't find it THAT different, either in sweetness or taste. I probably prefer it to traditional orange sodas and I believe it to be vastly superior to many supposedly ""natural"" sodas, but I was surprised how similar it really is to artificially-flavored drinks. A bit more (maybe a lot more) orange and tangerine juice would be good."
,,,,,The motto of this drink fits,"I have always been a fan of premium beverages and sodas. I will never buy Pepsi or Coke products. At a minimum I will by Jones because they use pure cane sugar. I really enjoyed getting to try this product, and I am actually going on now to start ordering it on a regular basis.<br /><br />You can really tell the difference between ""pop"" and juice with sparkling water. It is a bit on the sweet side, and I did not think they needed to add the extra juice flavors to make it just right. However this is a great product, good size for individual servings, and it arrived in good packaging by amazon."
,,,,,High Sugar + Acidic Taste =  Not Ready to Make the Switch,"If you like Orange Crush you may become a fan, but it's too much of a hybrid for me. The main two ingredients are reconstituted apple and grape juices. It contains something called Acerola juice, which is high in Vitamin C (and indeed the can contains 100% of your C and 20% of your A).<br /><br />The sugar content is high---34 grams---which brings the carb percentage up to 12% for the day and the calorie count to 140. I think it tastes too acidic for anyone who is watching carbs and calories to be willing to ""spend"" them on Switch, which almost tastes like carbonated TANG.  I've tried the Ooba drinks, and they are much lighter and more refreshing. Guess I'm just not ready to make the Switch!"
,,,,,"tasty, lightly carbonated, good alternative for soda-pop","If you're a regular drinker of orange soda-pop, you might like this Switch orange tangerine carbonated juice beverage.  I thought the flavor was very good and appreciated that it was only mildly carbonated, not so fizzy that I had gas after drinking it.  At 140 calories per small serving, however, this isn't something I would regularly drink.  It's much healthier to eat whole fruit since it's more filling that simply drinking the extracted juice, in part because of the fiber associated with eating whole foods.  Still, this is a healthier option for those who regularly drink sugared sodas."
,,,,,Mostly good,"My impression of the Switch beverage was good overall.<br /><br />I was curious to see how good it would be.  After all, its not difficult to add some club soda to your own orange juice for an identical benefit at a lower price.<br /><br />The taste is fairly good.  It is heavy on the ""tangerine"" flavor.  Its a bit syrupy, with a high carbonation typical of many European drinks I've had.<br /><br />The juices that comprise this beverage, in order of quantity, are:<br />Apple<br />Grape<br />Tangerine<br />Orange<br />Acerola Cherry<br /><br />Needless to say, I think it would be difficult to mimic the exact flavor at home, due to the mix of the 5 juices they have.  Overall, you probably will be pleased with the drink.  Certainly, the canned beverage is more convenient than mixing your own, which is impossible if you are on the go.<br /><br />I will probably be buying more of this product, however, I did not find the flavor to be so compelling that I would recommend it heartily to a friend."
,,,,,Drink healthier without the YUCKY taste..but at cost.,"I am a die hard soda pop fan. I will drink juice but normally only certain brands or with a little soda (7up or Sprite) mixed in to kill the after-taste and to sweeten it up a bit.<br /><br />Well this is better that even that mix without the bad stuff from the soda. It has a crisp, clean orange taste with a nice tangerine undertone that continues through the after-taste. It is effortless to drink and doesn't make you feel sluggish afterwords. It is hard to describe other than to say they got it right. No extra sugar, yet it is very sweet, but not too sweet.<br /><br />I shared my can with my wife and she agreed with my comments 100%. We both we were sad that we only got the one little can to review and not the entire case!<br /><br />While I am not sure it could replace my Coke, it sure could replace my juice and some of my coke intake. The only problem (there always seems to be something) is that it is about 4 times the cost of my coke per oz. I could justify twice the cost but four times is the only reason I haven't ordered more so far. I do expect to breakdown and buy a case, but I still won't be happy over the cost difference."
,,,,,Very Tasty Soda Alternative,"This is a wonderfully refreshing citrus drink.  Not too sweet or too sour & just enough bubbles to make it sparkle.  I would imagine it could make a great addition to a punch, if you chose to add it to your favorite fruit juice.  The only draw back for me, is that it is a tad bit too expencive to replace our families normal beverage of choice but it sure does make a terrific treat to keep around for an occational indulgence."
,,,,,Makes your mouth happy....and bubbly,"Very nice drink.  I enjoyed it, especially when it was chilled.  The flavor is powerful but not overpowering.  I loved the bubbles.  Great drink."
,,,,,"Ho-Hum, It's OK.","I really didn't think there was anything special about this product. It doesn't have a bad taste, but it is different than a regular orange flavored soda. It is definitely not as sweet (which isn't a bad thing for me as I find the orange sodas way too sweet) and left a tiny bit of an odd aftertaste. It is a healthier alternative to regular sodas as there is no high fructose corn syrup, but it was still just as caloric. It is juice rather than artificial syrups, but the first juices listed in the ingredients are the overly sweet apple and grape constitutes, not orange and tangerine, to make the drink taste sweeter I suppose. Honestly, considering the price of this product and the lukewarm impression it left on me, I would rather just pour my own juice blend and add soda water or sparkling water to it myself. Most juices seem to be vitamin C fortified themselves, so unless you are just looking to replace the artificial sodas with something less damaging, I can't see a big benefit to this product."
,,,,,Good tasting orange soda,"I enjoyed the flavor of this orange soda.  It was not overly sweet and the orange flavor had just enough tartness to it.  I am glad it does not have any HFCS in it, but the calorie count is still quite high from the natural sugars.  All in all, if you are looking for a good orange soda, try this one."
,,,,,Very good!,This drink is very good especially after a long hot workout. It quenches the thirst without all the added sugars and preservatives. I highly recommend.
,,,,,Like an Orange juice,"This product taste like an orange juice, an artificial one but with less sugar and less flavor I didn't like it."
,,,,,Great flavor.,"This has great flavor, but I am not sure it would be a soda alternate.  I am thinking it would be good for a lunch or mini fridge at work!  Tastes great, but I really did not get the carbonation kick I get from a soda."
,,,,,Not what I expected,"I thought I would like this more than I do. Maybe it's my palate, but my first taste impression was pineapple, not orange or tangerine. The small portion size may be acceptable for an energy drink, but is not what I would call thirst-quenching. Not a good choice for anyone trying to control calories or carbs. On the plus side, it is sweet, but not too sweet and the level of carbonation is well-balanced."
,,,,,Really good flavor.  Surprisingly soda-like for being a juice product.,"Note:  I tried the watermelon-kiwi flavor first, and this review provides comparison to that flavor as well as unique information.<br /><br />Design/packaging:  I really like the can size.  It's narrower than a soda can, but the same height as a soda can.  It fits very nicely in my hand, and I could easily toss one of these in my purse or daypack.<br /><br />Nutrition:  The calorie and sugar count seems high on this drink, but if you compare it to the nutrition of the same amount of pure, unsweetened grape juice, it's the same calorie and sugar count, plus or minus 10%.  (It's worth noting that grape juice is the first listed ingredient, so this makes sense.)  Thus, they're probably not adding sugar or calories to the juice to make the drink.  The thing is, you probably shouldn't down ten of these a day, but one can as a snack or pick-me-up seems reasonable.<br /><br />Flavor:  Here's where Switch fell short in the Watermelon-Kiwi flavor, but I was pleasantly surprised to find that this flavor was refreshing and delicious.  It was not overly sweet like Watermelon-Kiwi.  I'm also very impressed with the flavor.  It's like a less-sweet orange soda, except that it's with real juice instead of artificial sweeteners.  I think this would be a great mixer as well as a nice snack beverage."
,,,,,Not bad,"I tried two flavors of Switch; the Orange Tangerine and the Watermelon Strawberry. I liked the watermelon flavor a lot, but found that with Orange Tangerine, the flavor of the can came through a bit too much. It reminded me of why I've never really enjoyed drinking canned orange juice. Still, it was fairly good and the carbonation made it light and refreshing. Both flavors were a big, big hit with my 8 year-old son."
,,,,,My favorite flavor,This stuff taste just like flavored carbonated water.<br />In this case Flavored with orange and tangerine.<br />I imagine it's better for you than plain soda.<br />I really found it tasty. It has a strong citrus flavor<br />that I preferred to some of the other flavors.
,,,,,"Not too sweet, but not full juice taste","I don't like how so many bottled and canned drinks these days (even the low-calorie ones) are so sweet.  This was nicely not-too-sweet, but had a canned, not fresh juice flavor.  It is personal taste, but I didn't care for the 'processed' flavor."
,,,,,ONE OF THE BETTER SPARKLING JUICES,"I like sparkling water a lot.  Perrier is usually my first choice but sometimes I want something a little more then the fruit flavored seltzer water.  This drink fits the bill nicely.  It contains all natural fruit which is a big plus over the fruit flavored options.  It contains some calories but since it is from a natural source and not just plain sugar, I'm okay with it.  This beverage is in a slimmer can with only 8.3 oz versus the usual 12 ozs of say, a can of soda so you save a few calories but not much.  It hits the spot when I want something sweeter then plain mineral water and it's healthier then soda.<br /><br />I've tried other sparkling fruit drinks with lower satisfaction marks.  Most of them claim to be ""all natural"" but list funky ingredients such as ""natural flavorings""  Huh?  This beverage lists ingredients that are easily defined.  Also, it avoids the overly sweet taste of other  similar produts.  This one stands out as a winner but less calories would make it perfect.  I guess you cannot have everything...."
,,,,,Our family is a huge fan of IZZE and this was right in line with that. The flavor was not too sweet and refreshing. My favorite,Our family is a huge fan of IZZE and this was right in line with that. The flavor was not too sweet and refreshing. My favorite way to enjoy this was with some ice and vodka...obviously that's only for those of you reading this that are 21 yrs or older!
,,,,,"Nothing like they promise, rather nasty tasting","The product may be every bit as healthy as they claim, but even if that's true, I could barley get down one can of this stuff.  It tastes like sour orange juice with some carbonation in it.  It doesn't taste anything like orange soda, and the taste it does have isn't very pleasant.  Also leaves a very nasty aftertaste, and like many sodas, this will leave you more thirsty than when you started drinking.  All in all, I cannot recommend this.  Stay away."
,,,,,Nothing special,"I'm not a big fan of carbonated juices, but am a huge lover of orange/tangerine.  In that respect, this was a disappointment for me, not being as tangeriny enough for me.  The first sip left me with an extremely unpleasant aftertaste, but had gotten easier to tolerate with additional sips.  But, after waiting a while for another sip, that initial unpleasantness returned.  If I'm going to drink juice, I'll stick to what I prefer, uncarbonated."
,,,,,wonderful,"I also got the Cherry one and this is just as good.  It's a break from soda or water or coffee.  I really liked the light refreshing taste and it doesn't fill you up like sodas can.  It's very very tasty and it had a very fresh orange taste, not artificial tasting.  I really liked it."
,,,,,Sweet and delicious!,"We are big Izzie fans, but we were excited to try this sode. We were VERY pleasantly pleased. It is a very orange taste, delicious and it feels good to know there is absolutely NO sugar. So, when our children want a soda we serve this and they are delighted. It's a win/win!"
,,,,,Light and refreshing,"I repeat, carbonated fruit drinks can be too sugary. This drink reminds me of other orange soda brands without the extra sugar that combined with the metallic can always leaves an odd taste in my mouth. Orangina has a bit more flavor, but Switch Tangerine Orange is light and refreshing,."
,,,,,More Like Liquid Candy in a Can!,"Looks can be deceiving, especially with this product:  The cute, tiny can looks great, but don't fall for it!  This little guy packs an amazing 140 calories per 8.3 oz can.  My favorite 24 oz Arizona Iced Tea(black/white tea with sugar) has almost just as many calories(150) and almost 3 times the size of Switch.  Also, do not be tempted with ""100% Vitamin C and 20% Vitamin E"" pitch either.  Most of us consume 100% of daily Vitamin C without even trying through foods and anything extra get eliminated.<br /><br />The taste however does feel a bit more natural than other artificial orange sodas though, so that's the only plus.  Also, if you do not worry about gaining weight, I guess this is a good way to get a sugar rush in a tiny can.<br /><br />Overall, a good-tasting product, but there are many other low-caloric alternatives out there.  A can of Diet Coke and a multivitamin anyone?"
,,,,,Orange Soda Flavor with Real Fruit Juice,"If you love orange soda but don't want to drink soda this is the perfect product for you.  This taste just like orange soda but is actually made of 100% real fruit juice.  no joke.  It really tastes good.  I loved it.<br /><br />However just b/c you don't have all the ""fake"" soda ingredients it still has tons of calories for 8.3 ounces 140 to be exact.  A can of soda has 150 for 12 ounces so I am not sure what the trade off is unles you want 100% of your vitamin C!"
,,,,,"Awesome taste, and healthy too!!!","I love everything about this drink.  It's got plenty of carbonation.  Even without added sugar or artificial sweeteners, it's plenty sweet, without being too sweet.  I LOVE tangerine, and this has a very tangerine-y flavor and aroma.  If you love oranges or tangerines, this is the perfect drink for you.<br /><br />I ordered this from the Vine program out of curiosity, but it will be one of my ""must buy"" items in the future.  I'm also going to buy some for my grandchildren.  Since it has no added sugars, and I know they'll love it, it will be perfect for them."
,,,,,"Great ""natural"" orange taste, tough price","When I tried a can of Switch Orange Tangerine I was expecting to taste something similar to Orange Crush or Sunkist soda.  Switch is actually quite different.<br /><br />Switch claims that it doesn't add any extra sugar or common additives found in most mainstream sodas.  And when you taste it, I believe them.  Since it doesn't have the added refined sugar of an Orange Crush-type soda, Switch comes across with a subtly harsher, more acidic taste. This can of Switch tastes like...well...carbonated orange juice.  To me, this is a good thing.  I enjoyed the flavor and found it tasty and pleasantly unique.<br /><br />Given all that, I would absolutely buy this product all of the time if it wasn't for the unfortunate price.  These cans are only 8.3 ounces and cost close to $1 per can.  That's a heck of a lot more than the $0.25-$0.33 you pay for a 12 ounce can of mainstream soda (when purchased as a typical 12 or 24 pack).<br /><br />I love the taste of this stuff, I love that it doesn't have all kinds of extra refined sugar, and I hate the price.  I want to buy it, but I just can't afford it and have to drop it to 3-stars on that merit alone.  Too bad."
,,,,,"Switch has true tangerine-orange flavors but it's too sweet despite having ""no added sugars"".","The Switch Orange Tangerine soda is an attempt to made a fruit soda with real fruit juice, real fruit flavor, and no added sugar.  They have mostly succeeded.  In the glass, the Switch looks like juice.  It is lightly but distinctly carbonated and easy to drink.  The orange and tangerine flavors are true - none of the ""burn"" of fake orange flavor.  The hit of tangerine is really nice and I greatly enjoyed the flavor.  My problem with the Switch was that it was too sweet for my taste.  I was surprised at the how sweet it was given the advertised ""no added sugar"".  The ingredient list mentions grape and apple juice concentrates.  That's how they get the sugars in without adding sugar.  Fruit juice concentrates are loaded with natural fruit sugars.  The nutritional label tells the story:  the 8.3 oz can has 34 grams of sugar!  That's more than Cocoa Cola (27 grams per 8 oz).  Bottom line - this is just too sweet for me.  It's too bad because the flavors are awesome.  If you have a sweet tooth, maybe this is for you."
,,,,,Apfelsaftschorle for Americans,"Living in Germany for several years, I acquired a taste for Apfelsaftschorle or schorle for short, apple juice and sparkling water.  The soda water cuts the sweetness, gives the juice a little tang, and makes the drink a better hydrator; the juice makes the soda water a little more interesting.  I usually drink any fruit juice this way now.<br /><br />Switch premakes my schorle.  The blend was and orange citrus rather than apple, but very good regardless.  I tried it straight, but it would have been better over ice or if it had been mixed with a little more soda water and a little less juice.  The ingredients were juice, sparkling water, and a couple of stabilizers, without two of my pet peeves; artificial color, especially red 40, and high fructose corn syrup.<br /><br />I enjoyed it and can recommend it as an excellent alternative to conventional soda.<br /><br />E. M. Van Court"
,,,,,Switch?  Ummm ... no.,"I was looking forward to tasting the Switch Orange Tangerine drink since orange and tangerine flavors are two of my favorite but I was disappointed in the result.<br /><br />It was tangy. It tasted of ascorbic acid. It smelled of orange candy. It reminded me of breakfast. It reminded me of, yes, powdered Tang mixed with carbonated water followed by a strong unpleasant artificial aftertaste.  I found the the drink to be, simply, not very good.<br /><br />I tried to like the beverage and I did appreciate the concept but considering the unusual flavors, high calorie count of 140 cals/8.5 oz, and cost of almost a dollar/serving -- I cannot recommend Switch."
,,,,,The true un-soda,"The Switch Orange Tangerine is one of the most refreshing drinks that I have ever tried. It is 100% pure orange and tangerine juice and the difference from the regular sodas is quite obvious. Right from the first sip it feels richer and tastier than any soda product out there. After drinking it, you may never go back to regular sodas again. It works well by itself or with a meal. This may be an ideal substitute for sodas for kids, as it is a much more nutritious drink. The only problem that I have is the size of the can. At 8.3 ounces it may be enough for a kid, but you would need more than one of these to quench an adult's thirst."
,,,,,"Nothing earth-shattering; I enjoyed it, though it lacks bite","No harsh after taste, no tangible negatives.  It just doesn't have the ""bite"" that I crave from other carbonated beverages like ginger ale or root beer.  It's a good option for a healthful drink with some fizz."
,,,,,Not the best Switch Flavor,"I've become a fan of The Switch sodas. The black cherry flavor has a great balance of flavoring and carbonation that had me ready to give up traditional sodas. The Orange flavor; however, leaves a lot to be desired. It has a really strong after taste and despite being ""100% juice"" it tastes like bad artificial Orange flavoring.<br /><br />I'd opt for the grape or the black cherry for sure. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG940E"">The Switch Black Cherry, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a><br /><br />Also, you'll want to note that The Switch sodas aren't exactly healthy, they are simply not overrun with artificial flavors. They actually have a fairly high calorie count. That being said they have some health benefits over pop- like the vitamin count and no added sugars."
,,,,,Thick Drink with a Strange Taste,"I expected to like this drink because I like various fruit juices and I like carbonated beverages, as well.  Unfortunately, I just did not like the consistency or the taste of this drink. It was thick, had very little bubbly carbonation and, for me anyway, there was a very unpleasant aftertaste that lasted a loooong time.  I finally brushed my teeth really well and used some strong mouthwash to get rid of the taste in my mouth."
,,,,,It's an ok drink,"This drink is ok. A little pricier with several more calories and carbs than I would like, but it is a good alternative to soda. I am glad there's no artificial sweetener in it. It's sweet enough without it. I like the Crayons drinks better, but cannot find them anymore. I also like the flavor of the R.W. Knudsen Spritzers a little more."
,,,,,TOTALLY DELICIOUS,"I think sodas are a big waste of money.  That said, I had the opportunity to try this and it is DIVINE!!!"
,,,,,Sugar-free version needed. . .,"I thought the drink was delicious, but too sweet. I mixed it half n half with sugar-free ginger ale and loved it, however, I rarely drink sugared drinks. You need to make a sugar-free version."
,,,,,A bit too sweet for my taste,"I'm always looking for a carbonated alternative to sodas so I thought I'd give this a try. Generally I enjoy drinking naturally flavored sparkling water like La Croix or Crystal Geyser. I also very much enjoy Izzy's sparkling water/juice blends. Unlike Izzy, which combines juice and water, this is a 100% juice beverage that is carbonated. I have to say, it is definitely full of flavor, but it's just too sweet tasting. I like a bit of orange juice now and then, but for this type of carbonated drink, I'm just not into all that sweetness. I tried diluting it with some sparkling water, but the flavor just wasn't quite what I wanted. I like that Izzy is just a bit on the tart side with it's flavors. This is a nice idea and it's pretty ok. I just prefer other beverages over this one."
,,,,,100% Delicious,This drink has a wonderful orange citrus flavor.  It is robust but not too strong.  A great natural alternative to soda.  My 13 year old likes it as well.  Would not hesitate to purchase.
,,,,,"Tastes good, but pay attention to the labels!","I just tried the Orange tangerine version of The Switched carbonated drink and overall I like it.  It tastes very similar to mandarin orange Slice but it uses natural juices and no HFCS.  If you are very concerned about artificial flavors and HCFS, but still want a carbonated drink, then Switched may be a good alternative.  I read the ingrediants list and it mainly included reconstituted juces and then aboiut another line of preservatives and additives, I would assume similar to those in commercial fruit juices.<br /><br />Personally, I am more concerned about overall sugar and calories in my soft drinks so this little 8 oz can has 140 calories and 34 grams of sugar.  If memory serves me that is in line with the calories of most softdrinks and more sugar then most soft drinks.<br /><br />Ultimately, i think this is a good tasing product, but the touted benefits doesn't outweigh the increased price and availability conpared to regualar soda.  I guess the key is still moderation."
,,,,,Not as advertised,"I wasn't sure what to expect from a carbonated fruit drink, but decided to give it a try.  While it was drinkable, I actually prefer the natural taste of fruit juice.  This actually tasted like an artificial soda, much like a very well known orange soda.  The carbonation was excessively strong, with too much bite and burn for my liking.<br /><br />As some other reviewers pointed out, the amount of sugar and calories in this drink was astounding.  It is almost too sweet, and combined with the carbonation was just too much for me to enjoy it very much."
,,,,,sickening sweet,"I could not finish this drink, it is like drinking orange syrup. It may not have any added sugar in it but one can of 8.3 ounces has 34 sugar grams and 36 carbs. I'll stick to water when I want to quench my thirst!"
,,,,,Truly tastes like a tangerine....,"I really liked the tatste of this.  It actually tastes like you're getting the juice from a tangerine...I think the carbonation gives it that zing taste you can only get biting into an tangerine, orange, etc.<br />My daughter, however, really didn't like it.  Not sweet enough for her.<br />I think it's a little pricey, not sure I'd be willing to plunk down that much for it~~the can is very small, 8.3 fl. ozs., which is a proper serving of orange juice, which makes it around $1 a can, or a little less.<br />But overall I truly enjoyed that zinging tangerine taste!!"
,,,,,Kind of taste like a cheap champagne!!!,This is for sure not what I was expecting it to taste like. It's not bad but not for me. I like the carbonation and juice idea with no added sugar. When I first took a sip of it I noticed it has a bite to it. The best way I can describe it is a non alcoholic champagne. I however did like it better than the watermelon but still not for me.
,,,,,"AWESOME! Soda, enriched water alternative - Tastes GREAT!","This carbonated 100% juice drink tastes incredibly good! It reminds me of eating fresh tangerines when I was a kid, yet this is a drinkable version of that! If you like oranges and tangerines, you'll love this! These ought to be in every school vending machine (instead of sodas!)<br /><br />This is made from 100% juice, so great for adult (Or kids') lunches, picnics, etc. A great drink for exercise as well, and doesn't have the sugar in it, so no spikes in blood sugar... Likely a good choice for diabetics as well, and without the artificial sweeteners!"
,,,,,Sweet treat!,"I say all these reviewers who say this stuff is too sweet are WRONG! Have it on the rocks! The melting ice will water it down just right. I tried four flavors and here is my ranking:<br /><br />1st Place: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH40"">Kiwi Berry</a><br />2nd Place: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LGGH54"">Watermelon Strawberry</a><br />3rd Place: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG940E"">Black Cherry</a><br />4th Place: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG945O"">Orange Tangerine</a>"
,,,,,"Pleasing Orange Soda, A Tad Pricy but worth it","Switch Orange/Tangerine soda comes in a smaller can than a regular soda (a little over 8 ounces, compared to the usual 12 ounces in a regular soft drink can).  It is labeled as ""all-natural"" because the sugars in it come from fruit juices rather than added corn syrup.  I chilled the can of Switch in my refrigerator overnight, and then sampled it poured over ice in a glass.  The color is not so ""neon"" orange as some orange sodas -- it is a softer orange color.  The fizz is also less than in a regular soft drink.<br /><br />I found the flavor pleasing, with none of the chemical or metallic taste which can occur in many brands of orange soda.  The soft fizziness of the drink complemented the orange flavor well.  I didn't really get a true tangerine taste from the soda.  Tangerines are a very acidic fruit, and have a very distinct taste, which I did not really get from this soda.  However, the taste is very smooth and quite refreshing.  My teenaged daughters and their friends loved this soda, and I have been re-ordering it every so often as a treat.<br /><br /> Switch is a bit pricy.  You can cut down on the price by signing up for regular deliveries, but so far I haven't given in to that temptation.  However I am buying it for special occasions, for the travel cooler, and for planned teen get-togethers."
,,,,,"good, ok, maybe","This one tasted pretty good.  Very tangy, but in a 'real fruit' kind of way.  I think they got this one right.  I still can't ever see myself buying a bunch of this.  Maybe if amazon sent me more than a single can to try, I would have build a habbit of drinking them (cough..hint..cough).<br /><br />I don't really understand any drink this size.  If I were thirsty at all, I would want way more, at least 12 oz.  The only other drinks this size are those crazy energy drinks, and those are obviously more of a 'means to an end' kind of drink.  I guess it is supposed to be more of a gourmet soda/juice.  I guess there is a market for that, I'm just not part of it.<br /><br />Nice little carbonated juice, but still not really worth the effort/money for me."
,,,,,"Flavorful, and good!","This small can of juice is tasty! The carbonation makes this beverage very delightful, and the juice is not too sugary. It is good to see this drink in the market. Although I would have liked a larger size container so I could drink more at a time, The Switch drink is loaded with Tangerine goodness! Hooray!"
,,,,,Glorious,"Yes, you should order this drink because it does taste great.  (As long as price is no object)<br />Tastes like orange juice with seltzer water.<br />But dont feel guilty about drinking it because it is 100% juice !"
,,,,,The New Juice,"Switch has ""100% of what you want"" and ""0% of what you don't,""  according to the can.  Also, according to the can it is ""100% juice.""  According to the Amazon product page it contains soy.  Quoting the printed page:  ""Ingredients: 100% Juice (Filtered Sparkling Water Sufficient to Reconstitute Juice Concentrates, Apple, Grape, Tangerine, Orange and Acerola Juice Concentrates), Gum Acacia, Natural Flavors and Colors, Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C). Contains Soy.""<br /><br />There is an unusual taste.  It is difficult to decide whether it is the taste of the can or the taste of the soy.<br /><br />The price is surprising. The calories are shocking. One can has 140 calories.<br /><br />Who knows?  We may develop a taste for Switch."
,,,,,A flavor winner,"I usually cringe a little before I do a natural juice/carbonated beverage.  There is frequently something of an aftertaste that is unpleasant.<br /><br />This is refreshing, light, very bubbly and leaves a bright taste after with no cringe effects.<br /><br />I definitely would buy this drink."
,,,,,Very nice tangerine soda,"I certainly hope that Switch will be selling this product in larger packages - I was very disappointed when my Tangerine soda was gone - it was very good!  Actually tasted like tangerines, which was a surprise as most of the sodas on the market don't have much distinctive flavor at all.  Switch sodas are pleasantly carbonated, sweet without being overwhelming so, and very satisfying, particularly when drunk very cold!"
,,,,,"A Carbonated Juice That Tastes Like Orange Soda with a Tangy Tangerine Chaser, Fleshed Out by Filler Juices","This relatively expensive convenience-packaged item is 100 percent juice and contains 140 calories worth of concentrated apple, grape, tangerine, orange, and acerola juice reconstituted with carbonated water; acacia gum; some soy; and added vitamin C to provide 100 percent of the adult minimum daily requirement. There are no artificial flavors or additives which allows the manufacturer to describe this as a ""natural"" beverage.<br /><br />I often mix juice with seltzer water, and I like the combination quite cold. The Switch Orange Tangerine tasted more like orange soda with a tangerine chaser than what I am used to as juice flavor.<br /><br />The carbonation makes the drink seem lighter than juice, but not as light and refreshing to the mouth as juice and seltzer.<br /><br />The tangerine flavor made the taste seem more appealing than orange soda, but the orange and tangerine flavors don't last as long as soda flavors do on the palate.<br /><br />I would drink this again on a hot day if I could buy it inexpensively enough."
,,,,,Just OK for me,"At first, I really wanted to like this drink. ""The Switch"" tasted like tangerines and had a good aroma. The drink is carbonated, but not really strongly so. It is pleasant. However, after a few seconds, an after taste developed that was a little bitter. My wife thought this after taste was even a little ""off"", but she has a more sensitive palate than I do. In any case, the net effect was that I would just as soon have Orangina, and I won't be going out to buy more of ""The Switch"" Orange Tangerine. On the other hand, if this is what was being served at a party or gathering with few or no other choices, I wouldn't avoid it either."
,,,,,A drink without a category,"I love juice and I love carbonated beverages, but it is difficult to see this product having a long retail life.<br /><br />Essentially, this is a good drink that doesn't really do anything well.<br /><br />It doesn't taste good enough to be a juice replacement--and is there really a need for a juice replacement?  It might have limited value in camping situations or during other times where small cans make better travelers.<br /><br />It's not exactly a post-workout recovery drink.  Juice would be better.  Minute Maid juice, for instance, has less sugar and carbohydrates, even though Switch doesn't add any sugar.  And there are plenty of other juices that have more nutrients, including Calcium and other vitamins and supplements, including potassium.  So, it's less healthy than most juices.<br /><br />Switch isn't exactly a diet soda because of the natural sugar content comapared to zero sugar in diet drinks.<br /><br />As a regular alternative to sugared soda, it tastes good, but there is nothing really to distinguish it from other fruit-based sodas.  And, $22 a case, it's more than twice as expensive of sodas that come in bigger cans.<br /><br />So, in the end, Switch is worth a try but likely not something you will habitually buy."
,,,,,"Like ""orange"" soda, only way better!","Who knew juice could be so cool? It has a very refreshing taste and lightness, just the right amount of sweet (not too much). Switch is an apt name for this beverage. I am guessing that lots of folks will be making the ""switch"" from cola to ""carbonated juice"" once they get a taste of this product line."
,,,,,Did not deliver on the hype,"This product advertises that it is a soda made from 100% fruit juices and is refreshing.  I was quite disapointed in the flavor. If you have ever been unfortunate enough to drink canned (not refrigerated or fresh squeezed) OJ you know there is a HUGE differance in flavor. The bad, almost rotting component is carried over into this soda. IT even carries a rather odd aftertaste. I was not able to finish the entire can.<br /><br />This may be a feature of the Orange flavor. Other fruit flavors of this product might indeed taste good. But I recommend skilling the orange version."
,,,,,Refreshingly Lite Natural Drink,"This was actually a surprisingly refreshing drink that is lighter then OJ and reminds me of a virgin Mimosa. There was little after taste and the flavor isn't overbearing like an orange soda. The best thing is its all natural with no corn syrup. The bad thing is that the size is a little small at only 8.3 oz, which is probably to keep the calorie count down. Overall, a good, refreshing pick me up, but you may want to drink more then one."
,,,,,Not as tasty as it could be,My daughter & I were excited about trying this flavor as we both love orange juice.  This product did not impress us enough to order it as we liked other flavors more. My son also tried it and didn't care for it. The orange tangerine flavors are masked by the other fruit juices and makes it taste odd.  I like the fact that has added Vitamin C and is a healthy alternative to sodas but the flavor on this one needs tweaking.
,,,,,OK but not my fav,"Ive tried the Black Cherry version of this drink, and I prefer that to this. Both are light and refreshing and WAY better than fruit-flavored waters. YUK! You can tell by the taste these are definitely fruit juices but without the sticky, thick, sweetness of a non-carbonated drink. This orange tangerine flavor though - there's this weird taste to it one that hits you immediately. Not quite bitter, not quite metallic, but definitely not yummy - unless you like bitter fruit - not sour - bitter. Maybe it's too much carbonation for my taste. If you've tried the other flavors and are looking to try something new - think twice about this one. It is tingly and refreshing, but I won't order it again."
,,,,,"A little funky, but not bad.","I didn't mind the taste of this very much - it tasted like Minute Maid OJ mixed with soda.  My husband couldn't stand it at all.  My only issue with this was that it was a heavy-syrup sort of flavor that was a little overwhelming.  If there was a better balance of flavor to liquid to make it a little lighter tasting, I think this would be much more refreshing and enjoyable.  Might be fine for kids though - since they like that sugary orange stuff."
,,,,,"Pricey sugar, okay taste","I wasn't sure what to expect with this citrusy, fizzy drink. It was okay, though not something I'd buy often, and certainly not worth the price in my opinion.<br /><br />It wasn't as orangey as I expected and it wasn't until I had half of it gone that I read the ingredient list and saw why--orange juice is actually the fourth juice listed on the ingredient list, with apple and grape juice first and second, and the tangerine that seems to tone down the sweetness slightly the third on the list.<br /><br />When you look at the nutrition information, this product has about forty more calories than Coke Classic, and despite not having any *added* sugar, the grams of sugar in this product is MORE than an equivalent amount of Coca-Cola!! The only bonus of this over ""real"" soda is the Vitamin C and A...there isn't much else nutritionally to speak of."
,,,,,Good taste but high in calorie,"The can size is like a Redbull drink's.  However, its sugar content is 34 grams.  Attached is a photo of the nutrional facts.<br /><br />In terms of its taste, in my opinion, it's quite tasty, sweet, a bit tangy and very orangish!"
,,,,,Oranginaish,"To be blunt I'd call this Orangina (<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000121BY6"">Sparkling Citrus Beverage with Pulp - 4 Glass Bottles</a>) sans pulp.  Basically the drink has minimal carbonation, and a light orange juice flavor with hints of rind/zest.  Undertones of grape and apple come across as well being that they are ingredients but I still feel this beverage is distinctly orange.  Compared to the cherry which I tried earlier I feel that this is a far more refreshing drink.  Personally I find this drink to be rather good and fans of Orangina should definitely take note."
,,,,,"Good flavor, small serving, high in calories","<span class=""tiny""> Length:: 2:47 Mins<br /><br /></span>Short video review with first open, pour and taste of The Switch Orange Tangerine."
,,,,,"Not A Bad Alternative To Soda, But Not A Great One Either","My first impression on this particular drink when I first tasted it was that it reminded me a bit of the soda ""Orange Crush,"" although nowhere near as carbonated. Unlike ""Orange Crush,"" this drink did not have the lingering carbonated fizz that your typical sodas have, and a very pleasant surprise was the fact that I didn't get any disgusting soda burps after drinking it. You know the kind I mean, when you burp and you could swear that you just swallowed a week old dead skunk tail first. I also didn't get any real aftertaste when drinking it either.<br /><br />Now coming in at 8.3 ounces, the calories in this drink are reported at 140 calories per can. By comparison, a 12 ounce can of Pepsi comes in at 150 calories per can. So, on the calorie front I wouldn't say that there is much of a difference between this drink and Pepsi, although if you do the math, this drink would actually have more calories than Pepsi if you compared them in equal amounts. However, if you look at the list of ingredients in both, you can see where this product is far better for you than your traditional sodas, although obviously not as good for you as drinking an actual 100% pure fruit or vegetable juice.<br /><br />To put in plainly and succinctly, this is a fairly good tasting beverage and is definitely one I would consider drinking over the more traditional sodas that are currently available. However, the one primary detractor to this is the size of the can compared to the price.<br /><br />The one thing that I had not quite decided on whether it is a negative or a positive is the size of the can, which as I stated earlier comes in at 8.3 ounces compared to your traditional cans of soda that come in at 12 ounces. In addition to the size of the can, there is also the consideration of price, coming in at roughly $1.00 per can which is considerably more expensive than your average can of soda. Therefore, when you take the size of the product combined with the price, I would have to say that it is a definite negative and would probably keep me from purchasing this product.<br /><br />If they created a 12 ounce can and lowered the price, then I would be more apt to purchase it.<br /><br />Shawn Kovacich<br />Author of the Achieving Kicking Excellence series."
,,,,,Carbonated orange juice in a can,"I did not find this drink anything special in terms of taste; it is orange juice infused with carbonation. The juice is quite acidic and you don't feel that there is 100% fruit juice. The drink comes in cans rather than glass bottle which would have helped the drink maintain the juicy taste longer. It does not have any preservatives and it is gluten free, no sugar and no artificial flavors. This drink doesn't have any special features and it doesn't stand out well in a market crowded with many drinks.<br /><br />1. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014WYXQK"">IZZE Fortified Sparkling Juice, Pomegranate, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a><br />2. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000Q3ECXM"">Minute Maid Mixed Berry Juice, 24 - 10 fl oz Bottles, 240 fl oz</a><br />3. Cal Valls Certified Organic Juices - Clementine (24 fluid ounce) by igourmet.com"
,,,,,"Not a fan, has an odd taste - Carbonation in minimal",The product says a twist because of carbonation. Well after pouring the drink over 3 pieces of ice the carbonation was gone.  The carbonation is definitely light and does not last.<br /><br />As far as the taste goes I did not care for the taste at all. It left a bad after taste in my mouth I cannot recommend this product. I will stick with regular juice at a much lower cost.<br /><br />To be fair I gave it two stars because my wife thought it was OK.
,,,,,The Switch vs. Soda,"The Switch bills itself as ""great tasting healthy alternative to soda"" so I decided to see for myself. The first thing I wanted to do was compare it's nutritional facts against my favorite orange soda and this is how they matched up:<br /><br />The Switch Orange Tangerine (Per Serving)<br />16.97 Calories<br />1.8 mg Sodium<br />4.3 g Carb<br />4.1 g Sugar<br />20% RDA Vitamin A<br />100% RDA Vitamin C<br /><br />National Brand Orange Soda (Per Serving)<br />15.8 Calories<br />3.7 mg Sodium<br />4.3 g Carb<br />4.3 g Sugar<br /><br />Besides slightly less sodium, the addition of vitamins and no added sugars <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG945O"">The Switch Orange Tangerine, 8.3 Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a> didn't really stand out as a winner based on nutritional facts alone. So when it came to drinking it, I had expected to prefer the more natural taste that The Switch might offer.  Unfortunately the main two juices used in this drink are Apple and Grape and that left me not tasting the ""Orange Tangerine"" as much as I had wanted.<br /><br />Overall when comparing the two beverages not only did it not impress me with taste or nutrition, but add on the obvious price difference ($.03 per ounce vs. $.11 per ounce) and The Switch won't be causing me to switch. I'm happy to stick with my good old orange soda."
,,,,,Not terrible ... but I'd rather just have orange juice,"I tried this product after Switch's Watermelon-Strawberry drink, and while I thought that drink was decent, I was not a big fan of the Orange-Tangerine flavor.  The taste was an obvious blend of a number of different flavors in addition to orange and tangerine, and for me that made it taste more Orange-ish than Orange.  As others have noted, the amount of calories and sugar are not that different from a cola, so it's not really clear that it's THAT much healthier than other sodas.<br /><br />Personally though, I'd rather just grab a glass of orange juice or eat an orange instead.  I guess it depends on what you are deciding to ""switch"" from: for people looking for an alternative to cola, I guess this might be an attractive product.  But as someone who prefers water or tea and rarely drinks sodas, this product isn't close to making me want to ""switch""."
,,,,,Tasty & Not Too Sweet,"I like orange soda but usually cannot drink an entire can or bottle of Sunkist or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00168A9KG"">Orange Crush Case 4-6pk</a> because they are so sickly sweet. This has just the right touch of natural sweetness, and the tangerine gives a nice little tang to the orange flavor. Reminds me of the great orange sodas you can get in Europe or specialty shops, like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001GN4OHK"">Orangina Sparkling Citrus Beverage with Natural Pulp - 24 Cans</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0001FQUCG"">San Pellegrino Aranciata 6 pack - 6oz bottles</a>.<br /><br />Dare I say it? Yes. The flavor and size make it a perfect mixer. After my intial sip, I immediately thought it would be great to fill up the rest of the glass with vodka."
,,,,,"Syrupy tasting, Unlikeable flavor. Yuk!","I was offered the opportunity to taste this product because of Vine. I would not normally purchase this type of product, so my review and opinion will be biased in that regard.<br /><br />I'm not a big soda drinker, I'd just rather drink water or coffee. I will occasionally drink a diet soft drink, usually Diet Pepsi or Diet Coke.<br /><br />Did you know that a single 12oz can of Coke Classic has 140 calories and 39 grams of sugar? This 8oz can of Switch has 140 calories and 34grams of sugar. And this is healthy? 4 ounces less is size, same caloric content and more sugar per ounce that Classic Coke. OK, so it's not ""added"" sugar, but still, that's a lot of sugar. 100% Orange juice, 8 oz, has 120 calories and 28 grams of sugar.<br /><br />The can says it is ""Orange Tangerine"" but in fact the contents are #1: Water #2: Concentrates of Apple, Grape, Tangerine, Orange, and Acerola juices. Then they throw in some ""gum acacia"", ""natural flavors and colors"" and some ""ascorbic acid(vitamin C)"". And as a little surprise bonus, they have added ""soy"". Soy?<br /><br />I asked my wife to taste this product with me. I poured the drink into two glasses and we both took a sip. Her reaction was swift and strong... she hated it. I agreed with her. It was for me, sickly sweet and left a sugary aftertaste in my mouth. Not only that, but the taste was just nasty. It didn't taste at all like orange or tangerine to me. It just tasted terribly sweet with an undefined cirtus something taste. The carbonation did not add anything positive to the experience. Neither of us finished drinking our 4oz portion. It went down the sink.<br /><br />I would not purchase this product in the future and if I could have given it 0-stars, I would have. It's that bad."
,,,,,Enjoyable,"I found this to be a nice alternative to juice and to the usual pepsi that I normally drink.<br /><br />It had a nice light flavor with just a little carbonation.  I don't believe tangerine is the right name for the taste. I would say a tart orange juice is more accurate. However, the name of the drink does not take away from the quality of the product.<br /><br />I let my children try a little bit of this and they too thought it was a very good taste.<br /><br />The cans are small, smaller than a coke can, but I found one to quench my thirst better than any of the caffeinated drinks I would normally pick up."
,,,,,Refreshing,"Fruit juice has lots of calories, so at home, we often dilute grape or orange juice with water or seltzer and ice. We like the flavor and the bubbles make for a more refreshing drink. The Switch is a portable alternative - a little carbonation, nice flavor, more like tangerine than orange, and 100% of the daily requirement for vitamin C. When convenience is important, The Switch is a good, healthier alternative to soda."
,,,,,Great Alternative to Soda,"I really liked this drink.  It provides the pleasure of a carbonated beverage without the sickly-sweet, sticky feeling that drinking a soda leaves behind.  Despite containing apple and grape juice, it tastes mainly like the orange and tangerine it advertises.  If you're looking for a carbonated juice, I'd definitely suggest this.  I'll be drinking it again."
,,,,,REFRESHING ORANGE JUICE DRINK WITH A KICK,"Refreshing orange juice drink with a good kick to it. If you drink this first thing in the morning with breakfast, it's sure to be a real eye-opener! It's a ""juice"" drink, not soda pop. But it is carbonated, so it has the same bubbly, zesty fizz. The tangerine taste is better than Switch's black cherry. I would definitely buy a whole case of this orange flavor. Highly recommended!!"
,,,,,Tasty for what it's not,"If you want a quick pick me up that is not full of added sugar, then this is a refreshing alternative to a soda. The flavor is more heavily tangerine (which only makes sense). It isn't overly sweet, which is a good thing."
,,,,,Tasty Carbonated Orange Juice,"If you like a little fizz with your juice this is a good product.  Tasty and refreshing.  However, like all juice it is not low in calories, so don't buy it expecting it to be more like a low cal fruit flavored sport drink."
,,,,,Tastes Good and Healthy and Bubbly,"I quit sodas over a year ago due to the unhealthiness of them.  I do, however, like bubbly drinks, but I don't need the sugar or sodium.  That's why this product is perfect.  It is 100% fruit juice, carbonated for the bubbliness.<br /><br />Orange is one of my favorite flavors.  This drink is the perfect drink.<br /><br />I think this product is even better than orange soda; orange soda is sticky, but this product is not.  It has the perfect amount of sharpness - which I love.  Because it is 100% fruit juice, it also has the perfect amount of natural sweetness.<br /><br />So this product is all the good things rolled into one:<br /><br />100% fruit juice<br />No added sugar<br />Bubbly<br />Awesome orange flavor<br /><br />It's so good, it's hard to believe you're drinking something healthy."
,,,,,Not a Fruit Substitute,"If you like tangerine and you think you need carbonation, then I think you'll like this product.  No sugar that I could taste to cut through the sourness of tangerine though there was a hint of the orange that helped take the edge off.  Of course if you really like tangerine, I mean you REALLY LIKE it, then you will get more than enough of it in this drink.<br /><br />We do need to be wary though of claims that natural equal healthy.  Is no sugar added really healthier?  What about the carbonate process that adds the fizzle and bubbles, what are those health affects if any?  Much like claims of organic we need to remember that not everything in nature is good for every person.  There is still a nice chunk of calories here, far more than water.  If you are allergic to citrus you shouldn't drink this even though you might drink things like Sunkisk.<br /><br />Did it taste good, oh yeah, it did to me because I like tangerine and orange.  But it did also have a slightly sour after taste that was annoying, easily solved with water.  Since I don't normally drink carbonated beverages though I felt a bit off after drinking this as well.<br /><br />This isn't just juice and you shouldn't make this a substitute for juice or fruit.  I don't doubt that it is slightly better for you thank other carbonated beverages though I think it would be better if they could cut some calories out as well."
,,,,,Delicious,"Like Izze, the basic idea here is soda made with actual fruit juice. No sugar, no HFCS, no preservatives, no coloring; just 100% fruit juice concentrate and sparkling water. Fruits listed are apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola (whatever that is).<br /><br />Intriguingly, the can mentions ""contains soy"" at the end of the ingredients list. There's no protein content listed, so it must be a trace amount. Something to bear in mind if you have a soy allergy, however.<br /><br />Flavor is fantastic. I'd have a hard time choosing between it and Izze, but I think I might just give Switch the edge."
,,,,,It's All Juice and It's All Fun!,"Switch is a fun alternative to traditional soft drinks.  It's 100% juice and all natural; it contains no added sugar, no corn syrup, no preservatives and no artificial color.  What makes it fun is it's carbonated.  And just the right amount.<br /><br />The first sip is perhaps a little tart or bitter, but that's because most of us are used to soft drinks with added sugar, corn syrup and a bunch of largely unpronounceable chemical compounds.  Switch has none of that and, although different from traditional soft drinks, the taste is very refreshing.  The carbonation makes it a ""fun"" drink that you can feel good about consuming (it has 100% of the recommended allowance of vitamin C).<br /><br />Should Coke and Pepsi be worried?  Probably not, but it does taste good and it's actually good for you.  You should try it!"
,,,,,Tasted pretty much like Orange soda.,"For a beverage that is basically 100% fruit juice that has been carbonated, with no sweetners or preservatives added, Switch Orange Tangerine pretty much tasted to me like a can of Orange Crush or Sunkist soda.<br /><br />That isn't a bad thing, per se...but it was not something I would pay a premium for if I were in the mood for orange soda.  Presumably, it is a little bit healthier than a straight soda, but it is nothing special to taste, and thus I will not go through the effort to seek it out.<br /><br />(On the other hand, my 16 year old daughter claimed to like it MORE than orange soda, and in fact said that she felt she could taste the grape juice in it.  As with many juices, even though it is orange ""flavored""...grape juice is a major ingredient.  So she would give it four stars.)"
,,,,,It is tart!,"This tastes like carbonated orange juice, very tart.  It is very expensive compared to easier-to-find similar beverages.  If one had allergies or health issues, it might be worth drinking."
,,,,,Tasty orange flavored beverage,"I sampled a can of Switch Orange Tangerine and found it to be a tasty beverage. As advertised, it is a ""...balance between juice and carbonated"" with a light carbonation so it doesn't taste like Orange Crush or Fanta but not like orange Gatorade either. The 8.3 oz can has 140 calories, with a 12% DV carb/sugar content but 100% Vitamin C and 20% Vit A. It's marketed as ""100% juice"" coming mostly from filtered concentrates. No sugar added, no corn syrup, no preservatives, no artificial colors, gluten free, if you're concerned with all that. Most important is that it tastes good and I would try it again."
,,,,,Tasty but expensive,"I'll admit that I don't care for drinks that are carbonated - the carbonation in soda makes me burp, they tend to be too sweet, or the diet drinks have a weird taste to them. So I wasn't sure what to expect when I drank this.<br /><br />To my surprise, the carbonation is very mild - it's more like a light buzz in your mouth instead of a lot of carbonation (you won't hear the contents fizz when you drink this stuff). The orange tangerine flavor is a nice combo  - stronger in the tangerine flavor than orange, though as someone who doesn't like any sugar in my drinks, I found it to be a tad sweet (though it is advertised as no sugar added), but less than I expected.<br /><br />I'm not sure when you would drink this though - it's a small can and I can't imagine someone who drinks cans of soda drinking one of these instead - especially at the price they charge for this. Are they thinking that this will replace a glass of orange juice first thing in the morning?<br /><br />Overall I think it's tasty and if someone offered me one, I'd take it, but it's not something I would buy."
,,,,,Not that great...,"The Switch Orange/Tangerine gets kudos from me for not including added sugars and nasty ingredients found in some traditional sodas, but as for flavor, it leaves something to be desired.  The initial yummy tangerine flavor of the drink is great, but after a few swallows, a strange after-taste invaded my mouth.  I found it difficult to drink the whole can."
,,,,,Was not a hit at our house...,My 7 year old daughter thought it was good tasted like pop but only drank 1/2 of the can. I thought it tasted like watered down orange soda with very little fizz with funny after taste. It is suppose to be  100% juice with vitamin C that has been carbonated. Ok here is my thought either buy 100% orange juice that taste like it came right of the tree or buy a orange pop. For me this product won't be flying off the shelves.
,,,,,"Great taste, but ---","I really liked the taste of both this and one other flavor that we were able to order.  So I went on line to see what kind of pricing there was on it.  At only 8.3 oz. for about a dollar, that's roughly the equivalent of $1.50 for a single can if it was a full 12 oz. soft drink.  Our budget isn't going to justify ongoing purchases of this product.  If we had more discretionary money, we might do it, but it'd be more of a treat than a regularly used product (partly because of the small size).  So the taste was at least 4-stars, but the price brought it down considerably - even recognizing the fact that the ingredients are far better than what is in most other soft drinks."
,,,,,"Tangy, less sweet","This orange soda is clearly more healthful, and it tastes tangier, although somewhat less sweet, than other orange sodas.  The one big drawback for me was that this drink lacks caffeine."
,,,,,Unique and pleasing taste,"This is a mix of apple, grape, tangerine, orange, and acerola juices.<br /><br />Taste is obviously subjective and that can be seen in the reviews. I like the flavor but will try to describe it rather than raving or ranting about it.<br /><br />The tangerine is the dominant flavor. However it is the taste of a very ripe tangerine or, perhaps, a clementine. There is that slight alcohol or medicinal overtone to an otherwise good flavor. I could see people not liking it while other do.<br /><br />Each can has 34 grams of sugar, 100 vitamin C, and 20% vitamin A and not much else. These aren't nutrients that are otherwise hard to get so this isn't necessarily a healthy alternative to regular soda. On some level (e.g. producing fruit instead of sugar cane) it might be attractive to some."
,,,,,Great Surprise,"I want to start this review by stating that this is not the perfect balance between juice and carbonated drink I've ever had.  That said this is certainly a good alternative for those who love carbonated drinks but don't like some of the ingredients.  Switch has attempted to address this concern and I feel it's a step in the right direct.  This is an Orange Tangerine flavored juice that is carbonated but without added sugar, preservatives, corn syrup, or caffeine.  In other words this is about as natural as you can get without, you know, drinking real orange juice.<br /><br />The can is also thinner then a soda can so you're not getting as much liquid as you would a Pepsi or Coke.  This means there is less fat in each can, and the makers claim the product is glutton free.  It does have a bit of a weird aftertaste, but after a few sips it stops bothering you.  While not a perfect drink it's one I enjoyed and will likely pick up again in the future."
,,,,,Not my favorite,"I have a tendency to avoid products with artificial sweeteners, and this includes sodas with high fructose corn syrup.  The Switch is a line of fruit juice sodas with no added sweeteners--not even cane sugar.  It has carbonated water, fruit juice, some natural flavors and colors, and vitamin C.  If you're going to drink soda, carbonated fruit juice is the best way to go.<br /><br />The Switch has several flavors, including Orange Tangerine.  However, it's clear some flavors are better than others.  The Orange Tangerine has a harsh aftertaste that another flavor I tried does not.  I've tried other citrus juice sodas and enjoyed them, but something went wrong in the flavoring of this particular soda.  If you're looking for an orangey soda, try Izze's Sparking Clementine instead."
,,,,,Tangerine juice soda,"This was a very interesting drink! It was refreshing, tasty and healthy! It was very Tangerine tasting, no after taste and very refreshing!"
,,,,,Refreshing & Natural,"This is a wonderful alternative to soda pop.  It's delicious, refreshing and most of all, natural.  I ordered the Tangerine/Orange.  I'm anxious to try the other flavors.  My only gripe is that the cans are rather small.  Other than that, it rocks!!"
,,,,,"Anything Orangey, and tangeriney is worth a try!","So, I sampled this SWITCH Orange/ Tangerine Blend. Low on the Carbonation, high on the Orange taste, and worth every sip in Gold! Plus, healthy to boot...Give it a try, and you may discard those ""Brand Names"" once and for all!"
,,,,,I loved it!,"I loved it! Good taste, pleasant carbonation, fun can.<br /><br />Ok, so all it is is carbonated fruit juice.... big deal, right?  But it actually is a big deal if you are a soda junky and want to cut down on the negative effects without losing all the experience.  I hate diet soda because it just doesn't taste right and has way too many synthetic chemicals in it. However, this drink has no sugar, corn syrup, or preservatives. I suppose the CO2 may not be the best for you, but you gotta live a little."
,,,,,Not for Me,"Described as an alternative to soda, Switch is a carbonated fruit drink made from 100% natural juices (although not necessarily the ones listed as the flavor).  Made mostly out of apple and grape juice, The Switch Orange Tangerine does in fact have an (oversweet)orange-tangerine flavor -- followed by a strong vitamin aftertaste. It tasted like drinking a soda made from crushed Flintstone vitamins.<br /><br />Want a better carbonated fruit drink?  Pour half a glass of orange juice and add club soda."
,,,,,Yummy and fizzy!,"This can of juice was delicious.  It reminded me of the Orangina beverage.  I did find it strange that they chose to package this product in a can normally associated with ""Energy Drinks"" like Red Bull since they market it as ""All Natural"".  Nevertheless, it's yummy and I recommend it!"
,,,,,Amazing Fruit Juice Spritzer,"The Switch Orange-Tangerine beverage is a mix of orange and tangerine juices with carbonated water, and, I must say, it tastes AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!!! It's similar to soda, but without all the unhealthy artificial ingredients and high-fructose corn syrup. If you find it, buy it!!!!!!!!!!"
,,,,,"A combination of juice and carbonation, 100% juice, no sugar, no artificial flavors","I decided to try ""The Switch"" orange tangerine because it was promoted as a drink that is 100% juice, 100% RDA Vitamin C, all-natural and it happens to be carbonated.<br /><br />The taste is like drinking orange juice at first with carbonation and I have to be truthful, at first I wondered if it was an alcoholic beverage at first.<br /><br />But after tasting it, you do taste the combination of the orange tangerine and the carbonation.<br /><br />The drink contains no sugar or corn syrup and no preservatives.<br /><br />Overall, a tasty carbonated beverage with only 140 calories and no fat.  15mg of sodium and 36g of carbs.<br /><br />If you are interested in the beverage that combines the taste of juice and carbonation, give ""Switch"" a try!"
,,,,,"Fizzy and Tasty, but nothing special","I chuckled a little when I read that this soda had no added sugar when I checked the label in the can since it already has 34gms of sugar anything more added and you'll have sugar junkies of whoever tries the drink.  The soda is tasty and quite fizzy, I think it has more carbonation than Fanta which goes flat easier.  The can is the typical size of an energy drink, but this is not an energy drink merely another fruit flavored soda.  It is flavored naturally, but that is the only difference from regular soda type drinks."
,,,,,A good option...,"I enjoyed this drink. It has good fizz and flavor. Ingredients include apple/grade juices as the main fruit elements. Tangerine, orange and acerola (type of wild cherry) round out the other fruit juices. For my taste, this is not citrusy enough. I find an Orangina to have better flavor, but it is loaded with added sugars (high fructose corn syrup is the second ingredient in Orangina)! I also compare this to the Izze version and the Izze wins for flavor. I think the health benefits of The Switch or Izze drinks outweigh the flavor differences though, and if I was but one of these types of drinks, I would not look at Orangina again."
,,,,,Fizzlicious  and tangy,"I love this flavor the best for it lightness, but zesty and orange tanginess.  Very refreshing taste and not over powering with no additives; what a plus.  nice carry size, but why should such a good thing be in such a small size.  Good that the product is in a can - recyclable.  there are other similar carbonated-juice out there and this is definitely one that could compete with the low-saturated market."
,,,,,Delicious!,"Orange Tangerine Switch is a crisp carbonated citrus beverage. Unlike its sugar-laden brethren, Switch doesn't leave a sticky film in your mouth after you've finished drinking it, presumably because there isn't any sugar added to the drink. My only complaint is the price: at about $1 per can, you don't get a whole lot of bang for your buck, especially since you can get a 12-oz can of regular soda for a much lower price.  I guess that's the price you pay for something that's ""better"" for you."
,,,,,Great Alternative to High Fructose Corn Syrup Laden Sodas,"I have long been a fan of mixing juice, such as orange joice, with a carbonated soda like 7Up - it provided the best of both worlds, fresh juice and carbonation. The down side over the last number of years is the high fructose corn syrup that has replaced sugar in the carbonated sodas.<br /><br />But, of late there have been alternatives. First there was Orangina, which mixed 12% orange juice with carbonated soda - still had the sugar, but far better than mainstream sodas. Then a number of drinks have become available that mix the carbonation with a high percentage of real fruit juices. Some of these have been underwhelming to say the least. The best so far is IZZE with its 70% fruit juice and 30% carbonated water - no added sugars.<br /><br />Now comes along The Switch. The Switch is 100% fruit juice with carbonation added. And, like IZZE, I really like this drink. It is different than IZZE drinks; The Switch blends their juices different to achieve a little more subtle flavor where IZZE has more tang and punch. I can't say one is better than the other only that they each deliver a different refreshing experience.<br /><br />I have tried The Switch in Orange Tangerine and Black Cherry. The Orange Tangerine is very good! I highly recommend it. The Black Cherry is good, better than some other cherry drinks of this sort I have had, but it could be a bit better; it doesn't quite deliver the same flavor experience of a really good Black Cherry soda."
,,,,,"Tasty refuel after exercise or liven up a lunch; 100% juice, 0% bad stuff","As part of Amazon's Vine Program I received two trial cans of The Switch, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG940E"">Black Cherry</a> and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LG945O"">Orange Tangerine</a>. I tried both flavors cold (over ice) and rated them 4 stars each, although I prefer the Orange Tangerine flavor to the Black Cherry.<br /><br />Whether or not The Switch is just right or not sweet enough for you will depend on your personal experience with carbonated juice drinks and soda. If you are looking for the sweetness and fizz of a diet soda you will be disappointed. These are 100% juice drinks. The Orange Tangerine flavor has 140 calories and the Black Cherry has 130 calories.<br /><br />I recommend them as an alternative to regular juice to liven up your lunch or help you refuel after a workout. Either way, you are getting 100% of your Vitamin C and there's no added sugar or corn syrup, no preservatives and no artifical colors.<br /><br />The Black Cherry flavor was too mild for me. I was looking for more bite. I could taste hints of the apple, grape and acerola juice concentrates in the blend. The flavor reminded me of blends I've tasted from Treetop. Again, The Switch has a lot less carbonation than you would find in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014WYXYW"">Izze Fortified All Natural Sparkling Blackberry Juice</a>, for example.<br /><br />The Orange Tangerine flavor should be renamed the Tangerine Orange flavor to reflect the dominate taste and aroma. The Switch's blend is as flavorful as <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000BDHBWQ"">essn Sparkling Minneola Tangerine Juice</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001L4EME4"">San Pellegrino Orange</a> although, again, it is no where near as carbonated as those other brands.<br /><br />In summary, these all natural, 100% juice drinks are a healthier option than drinking a soda. The Switch also can help break up the monotony of drinking plain water and/or juice after a workout. Remember to keep them the cans ice cold, though. Preferably, serve them on the rocks.<br /><br />BTW: If you are looking for a full-flavored Black Cherry soda, try <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001P9GB4Y"">Thomas Kemper Black Cherry Soda</a>, which has 170 calories per bottle. There's a low calorie (10) version as well but it isn't available on Amazon."
,,,,,Mona Lisa,Very Natural flavor. Not loaded with sugars and other things not good for you. Has a fresh taste of orange/tangerine and the carbonation is great. Great taste. I enjoyed this product and would recommend.
,,,,,"Low carbonation, 100% juice","According to the side of the can, it's 100% juice with a balance on the carbonation. It tastes great if not for the chalky aftertaste. The low carbonation made it feel less of a soda and more of a juice. I probably wouldn't buy it in the store because of the weird taste."
,,,,,Think a slightly fizzier Orangina....,"...and you'll have a pretty good idea what this tastes like. The tangerine (and/or the added flavoring) provides a nice 'tang' to the flavor. I found it to be quite tasty and refreshing.  I'm not sure why they are packaging it in the small 8.3 oz ""energy drink""-size cans, unless it's to keep the calories per serving down. At 140 cal.can, it certainly isn't low-cal, but there is no added HFCS (high fructose corn syrup) or sugar. The surprisingly high price is also a downside. True, real juice is a lot more expensive than water and HFCS, but at this price, I'll give it a pass.<br /><br />Pros:<br />Good taste, not too carbonated<br /><br />Cons:<br />Small can, expensive, fairly high calorie/oz"
,,,,,light and refreshing,"Overall, this is a nice, light, refreshing drink. The sweetness is a bit sweeter than Juice Squeeze, but not as sweet as Hansen's soda. I tried two flavors: this orange tangerine, and the strawberry watermelon. I preferred this orange one. The flavor was ""cleaner."" But, there are so many different juices in both those drinks, it kindof gets ""muddied."" I think I prefer Juice Squeeze because the flavor seems true-er. My 10-year-old daughter prefers Hansen's, because it is a bit sweeter. But, like I said, overall, this is a very nice drink. No corn syrup. Yea!"
,,,,,Surprisingly tasty,"Well, this drink was surprisingly tasty. The reason it was surprising because there is no sugar added. It's ""100% juice carbonated"". It was like drinking a soda but it was a drink of juice that is carbonated. This would be a good drink if you want a healthy drink that is carbonated.<br /><br />Now I'm curious about the other flavors to see if they taste better. However, I do have to say if you're expecting something extremely sweet, this is not the drink to get. You may want to go buy Kool-Aid for that. This drink has a natural taste to it. I can actually taste the mixture of orange and tangerine. I wish the tangerine flavor was stronger, because I like tangerine more than orange, but considering the fact that there is no sugar, it's a good drink."
,,,,,My least favorite of the four I tried,"I like the idea of a healthy soda type drink, but this flavor just missed the mark. The tangerine overpowered the orange and left a bad taste in my mouth. Carbonated juice is a great idea, they just need to tweak the flavors a bit.<br /><br />Ranking the Switch drinks from best to worst:<br /><br />1. Watermelon Strawberry<br />2. Kiwi Berry<br />3. Black Cherry<br />4. Orange Tangerine"
,,,,,Not so good,"The can says it's 100% juice, but the taste is ...powdery.  If you've ever had a glass of Kool-Aid or Crystal Light, you'll know what I mean.<br /><br />So there's that 'from powder' taste; also there is an aftertaste.  And all comes in a can the size of a Red Bull for 160 calories.<br /><br />I did not like it."
,,,,,Delicious,"This is a nice, light, refreshing carbonated fruit juice. It's something like Orangina, but far more natural-tasting -- which makes sense, because unlike Orangina, it's all juice and has no added sweetener.<br /><br />My only complaint is that the 8.3 ounce can is rather small; I generally prefer a larger drink. It's definitely not a bargain if you have to drink two cans at a time."
,,,,,Great Taste,I love the taste of this soda. It's sweet with no bitter aftertaste that can be found in some orange sodas. I'd never guess this was a natural drink from the taste alone.<br /><br />My only complaint would be the serving size. It's correct for a serving size but not what I'm used to in a soda can. (12 oz.)
,,,,,Not good enough for me to make The Switch,"This 100% juice, carbonated beverage is a good alternative to traditional soda. As a somewhat health-conscious consumer, I avoid high fructose corn syrup (HFCS) as much as possible. This beverage contains no HFCS, no added sugar, no preservatives, and no added color. I'm sampling the orange flavor. It contains 100% of your daily recommended dose of Vitamin C, and 20% of your Vitamin A for the day. The downside is a single 8.3 fl oz can contains almost as many calories as a 12 oz a can of soda.<br /><br />The Orange-Tangerine flavor reminds me a bit of Orangina. Perhaps you've tried Crystal Geyser's Fruit Squeeze beverages which are also similar. It's definitely not comparable to artificially flavored orange beverages (Sunkist, Crush). It has a hint of grapefruit-like taste to it, but without the bitterness, which may be due to the added apple, grape, and acerola concentrates. The aftertaste is a bit metallic to me. The beverage itself is clear - without pulp of any kind - and is light-orange-yellow in color.<br /><br />This is a good alternative to those looking for something soda-like, but healthier than all the HFCS-loaded options. Maybe it's a good option for parents to give to their kids if their kids drink a lot of soda anyway. Personally, I don't enjoy it enough to buy it instead of other available, similar products. If I want orange juice or crave soda, I'll rather drink the real thing."
,,,,,Light and tasty beverage with no HFCS,"The Switch is marketed as ""100% of what you want, 0% of what you don't""...meaning, the only things in the can are juice and carbonation. There is no added sugar, no corn syrup (high fructose or otherwise), no preservatives, no *artificial* colors (""natural"" flavors and colors ARE added), and no gluten.<br /><br />The Orange-Tangerine flavor seemed to taste almost like carbonated Sunny Delight - according to the label, the juice flavors are apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola. It was quite tasty and had just the right amount of carbonation - almost like a soda that has been opened and left to sit for just a few minutes to let some of the excess gas escape. It was light and, dare I say, refreshing. For what it is marketed to be, it does quite well.<br /><br />The only downside is that I could probably do something similar at home - buy some Sunny D and add some sparkling water or seltzer, and it would probably be cheaper. However, if you're out-and-about and need something light, tasty and not loaded full of extra nonsense, then this would certainly fit the bill."
,,,,,Tastes good but...,"This carbonated product has a nice natural juice taste to it that makes you feel like you're drinking something that might be a little healthier than all the other carbonated stuff out there on the shelves but I couldn't help but notice the amount of sugar this thing has listed on the nutrition facts:<br /><br />34g per 8.3 oz can of the stuff. 36g total carbs.<br /><br />Like I said, it's good but don't get fooled into thinking its any healthier for you. There's no artificial stuff in here according to the can at least."
,,,,,Reminiscent of regular orange soda,"This product claims to be a healthy carbonated product. This particular flavor is very heavy on the orange taste (which is to be expected). As a matter of fact, I found it very close to normal orange soda.<br /><br />Here are the claims of the product from the label:<br /><br />100% juice, 100% RDA Vitamin C, All Natural, Carbonated, Great Taste and Refreshment.<br /><br />No Sugar Added, No Corn Syrup, No Preservatives, No Artificial Colors, Gluten Free<br /><br />Nutritional Information:<br /><br />Serving Size 8.3 Fl. Oz. (245 ml)<br />Servings: 1<br /><br />Calories: 140<br />Fat: 0g<br />Sodium: 15 mg<br />Total Carb: 36g (Sugar 34g)<br />Protein: 0g<br /><br />Vitamin C: 100% RDA<br />Vitamin A: 20%<br /><br />Ingredients:  100% Juice (filtered spring water sufficient to reconstitute concentrates, apple grape, tangerine, orange and acerola juice concentrates), gum acacia, natural flavors and colors, ascorbic acid (vitamin C). Contains Soy.<br /><br />Compared to soda, it is healthier in that it doesn't contain added sugars or corn syrup.  But it still has a bunch of calories.  Eating fruits whole is better than juice, but if you want a quick soda-like pick me up (and you love orange soda), I would recommend this product over regular soda.<br /><br />I gave this product 3 stars because I don't think it really is that healthy, but is a decent alternative to regular soda. Also, the taste was ok, nothing remarkable."
,,,,,Switch Orange Tangerine - 8.3 Ounce Can,"Taste is good enough to maybe purchase a 24-pack of this sugar-free, 100% juice carbonated orange / tangerine flavored drink. With more folks (like myself) these days seeking out sugarless soft drinks, this Switch product is actually quite good, I thought. Easy and small enough to carry. Might want to bring two. Ideal for a summer night outing at a theater in the park event, friend's outdoor bar-b-que, kids softball game, etc."
,,,,,Great fruit drink,"I'm diabetic, so I'm always looking for natural, flavorful drinks without a lot of added sugar. Switch fits the bill for me. It's lightly carbonated, much less than a regular soda. The fruit flavor is very natural.<br /><br />The Orange/Tangerine tasted primarily like orange at first. But then I noticed a distinct tangerine aftertaste. The drink actually tasted very much like the tangelos I had the day before! Excellent!<br /><br />The can is also smaller than a regular soda can. That's okay with me, it's fine for a light drink when I'm thirsty. A full can of soda is sometimes a bit too much.<br /><br />Switch will probably become one of my drink alternatives, and I'm looking forward to trying the other flavors."
,,,,,"Decent tasting, but too small and overpriced","I drank a single can of the Switch Orange Tangerine flavor today.  Upon first impression, the physical size of the can is a tiny -- 8oz or 250ml.  This in contrast to a regular can of soda size which is 12 ounces or 355 ml.  Therefore, only about 2/3 the content of a normal can of soda.  To say the least, this isn't enough liquid for me in one sitting.  I need more to drink than that to quench a tiny bit of thirst so I was quite disappointed without even opening the thing up.<br /><br />The taste of the drink itself was satisfying.  Since there is no added sugar (which is usually corn syrup in the US) the flavor was not too sweet nor was it too bland.  However, it wasn't anything like drinking a fresh bottle of 100% natural juice.  More on the side of mixed syrup with water.<br /><br />What kills this product is the high price.  Product right now comes out to about a buck a can.  I would be angry paying that out of a vending machine for its small size but for purchasing in bulk, it is an insult to say the least.  Not worth the money."
,,,,,"**Odd**Tasting, But Natural!","The SWITCH ORANGE TANGERINE SODA doesn't taste too bad and it is carbonated, but the taste reminded me of orange juice that went sour. You know, when the O.J. has gone way past the expiration date and you gulp some and it has that bitter acidic taste.<br /><br />Anyway, the soda is made from a combination of apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola juice, and doesn't add sugar, corn syrup, preservatives or artificial colors. It's also gluten free so that's good news for those who are trying to watch what they eat and drink.<br /><br />The 8.3-ounce can is smaller than the standard 12-ounce can of soda and maybe it just takes a couple of tries to get used to the flavor.<br /><br />Like I said, not bad but I'll stick with regular/diet soda. But for a healthier alternative for soda lovers, I suggest trying one of the ""SWITCH SODAS"" OR any naturally flavored sparkling water."
,,,,,Not So Bold Soda Alternative,"I'm a fan of all-natural anything, especially when it's a tasty and healthy alternative to something I've enjoyed my whole life, but I know is 'bad' for me.<br /><br />Regular soda is one of those 'bad' things.  Loaded with artificial colors, sweeteners, corn syrup...yuck.  Hardly seems worth the risk when I'm also getting 150 empty calories on average.<br /><br />And now Switch has come along.  True to its claim, there's nothing artificial in it.  Just juice, sparkling water and other 'all natural' ingredients.<br /><br />That's great.<br /><br />So I chose this particular flavor (orange tangerine) because I wanted the strong citrus taste I love.  This drink, however, failed to meet their promise.  Yes, I can 'taste' the orangy citrus, but as much I can taste the apple and grape juices used as well.<br /><br />Moreover, this doesn't have that bold 'pop' to it as other carbonated beverages have.  I've had mineral water with more bite.<br /><br />But the worse part about this 'good for me' drink is in clocks in at 140 calories (the same as a regular can of Coke) and 36gcarb/34g sugar (compared with Coke at 39/39).<br /><br />On the up side, it has less than half the sodium as many regular colas and does deliver 100% Vit C and 20% Vit A. But if I wanted those kind of health benefits, I'd rather take them directly from the source: an orange.<br /><br />Overall, the all-natural health pros of Switch Orange Tangerine, simply don't justify the high calorie and carb count.  The Switch Beverage Co. may have done better to sell sparkling water with a twist of orange peel if they wanted to provide a truly healthy alternative to traditional sodas."
,,,,,tangy orange-y bubbly stuff .... yum!,"I like carbonated fruit juices and I think this one is fine.  It has a more tangy formula than the name suggests; it's more of a light fruit punch.  It's refreshing and a good serving size, in my opinion.  It's wonderful to have something that doesn't contain high fructose corn syrup!  What's here instead is: 100% juice (filtered sparkling water sufficient to reconstitute juice concentrates, apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola juice concentrates), gum acacia, natural flavors and colors, ascorbic acid (vitamin c), contains soy.  Delicious.  Sweet.  Light.  Fruity.  Tangy.  Yum."
,,,,,I wish it were either orange or tangerine.,"Sometimes if too many flavors are mixed together, the result tastes like none of them.  This doesn't taste like orange or tangerine.  It tastes, to me at least, very sweet and sort of orangy but not tart at all, and I like my citrus type sodas to be tart and sort of sour.<br /><br />Still, great for those who are trying to get away from the high fructose corn syrup diet."
,,,,,very tasty 'natural' soda,"I haven't seen this brand in cans before; how exciting!  I know this brand can be hard to find at the store so it is nice to see it being sold here at Amazon.  I am a big fan of 100% juice that has been lightly carbonated and have tried the few brands that are available and Switch is one of my favorites.  My biggest beef with the brand is that it is just super hard to find, which has now been resolved.  I have to say that I don't love the orange-tangerine flavor, which is why I gave it four stars instead of five;  I just don't really like orange flavored drinks but did like how this one had more tangerine flavor than straight-up orange.  I would definintely recommend this brand!"
,,,,,I wanted to like it more,"I was really looking forward to sampling this product. It's not bad, but a little too sweet-tasting for me. Also, at 140 calories for an 8.3 oz can, I thought that was on the high end. But it does contain 34 grams of sugar, and one must remember that fruit juice is not low in calories. I would have preferred more sparkling water and less juice. On the plus side, it has no artificial ingredients or colors. And no corn syrup! I am sure many will like this product more than I, especially those who prefer more sweetness in their beverages."
,,,,,Tasty but Calorific,"This 8.3 ounce can of carbonated beverage is tangy and tasty. And the slimmer size can means that you are drinking a smaller serving than an ordinary can of soda. But although it's 100% juice, it still packs quite the calorie punch. One can is 140 calories, which is almost exactly the same as in a 12 oz. can of regular Coca-Cola! So it may be slightly healthier than drinking Coke since it has no caffeine or high-fructose corn syrup and it has 100% of your requirement of Vitamin C. But it's not going to make you as slim and attractive as the packaging!"
,,,,,"Tastes almost like a ""regular"" orange/tangerine soda!","I drank this and could tell very little difference from a regular orange/tangerine flavored soda, which is quite impressive considering that this drink is made from 100% juice!  It has 140 calories and a great alternative to a regular soda.  I will definitely be purchasing these in the future!  I also tried their Kiwi Strawberry carbonated juice and enjoyed it as well."
,,,,,Orange Tangerine Switch,"This product is not a soda but a carbonated juice. This soda has a nice taste- its not as sweet and as pure orange-tasting as typical orange soda-like drinks. It's not pure orange juice- but made up of a mixture of several different juices including apple, orange, grape and tangerine.  That juice blend gives it a slightly tangy taste that is actually at first slightly surprising and mostly refreshing.  The carbonation also seems lighter to me than soda but it is definitely there.<br /><br />The things I like about this product are the smaller can size (8.3oz)which makes it a more appropriate serving that a regular soda.  I also like the bright packaging and the pleasant taste.  After reading the ingredients of SWITCH carefully- I see that it is all juice just as it claims- so its probably a better choice than a regular soda.<br /><br />This product has no added sugars just as advertised on the can- but buyer beware- its still kind of high in sugar because fruit juices are naturally high in sugar. As always be sure to read the label if you are concerned about sugar levels.<br /><br />Overall I think this product is a good size and has a pleasant taste- especially if you are looking for something that tastes like an orange juice blend.  Traditional orange soda fans might be slightly disappointed in the taste."
,,,,,Too Sweet for This Sugar Freak,"I have a big sweet tooth and thought I would really like this, but it was too sweet even for me. I even tried adding water, but that didn't help. I haven't tried any of the other flavors, so I can't comment on the brand in general, but I'll never try this flavor again."
,,,,,36g of sugar still there!,"If you think this is going to be a healthy product, you are sadly mistaken. It still contains 36g of sugar per can!  If you want to end up a fat diabetic, by all means, try it. Otherwise, try the ZERO CALORIE, ZERO SUGAR, ZERO CHEMICAL naturally fruit flavored seltzers like those by La Croix."
,,,,,Lame,"These are definitely not worth close to a dollar a piece.  If they were at my local grocery, I might give twenty to thirty cents per can for them.  I didn't really like the flavor that well, but if you did, they might even worth up to fifty cents per can.  Otherwise, pass these up."
,,,,,Yummy!,"Dare I be corny and say, ""Make a switch to The Switch?""  This soda has a great orange-tangerine taste.  It is juice with carbonation, therefore, it can tout that it is all natural, without any added sugars.  It lacks that sickly sweet taste that soda with high fructose corn syrup tends to have, which is a bonus.<br /><br />This can at 8.3 oz is following the `skinny can' trend, as well, which I think is great for packing in a cooler, your bag, or a picnic basket.  I would put these out at a party, as well, for mixed drinks, self service, and sake of ease."
,,,,,Would Not Switch,"This had a nice citrus flavor, but it was too sweet and actually flat. I did not get any kind of fizz or sparkle. For the amount of sugar and calories, I rather would have eaten a piece of fruit and drank a glass of seltzer water - less calories and more satisfying in my mouth. I got this on GB special for about $13.52 for the case. I don't think I will purchase again."
,,,,,"Unless you really want Vitamin C in your soda, not really worth it.","I liked the level of carbonation.  It was actually more highly carbonated than I was expecting, but didn't taste dry the way I would expect an artificial-sugar-free drink to taste with carbonation added.  I was hoping it would taste more ""orangey,"" but the tangerine is the more dominant flavor (along with apple, a common juice ""filler"").  Despite having ""no added sugar,"" however, there is still 34 grams worth of it in the small 8.3oz can.  Basically, other than having 100% of the daily value of Vitamin C, this drink could easily be replaced with a better tasting orange soda that is in a 12oz can and costs far less.  Unless you really like the taste, or you want to ensure your Vitamin C beverage stays fresh longer, I'd give this one a pass."
,,,,,Delicious,"After the JP Morgan Corporate Challenge road race in Boston, they were handing these out at the finish line.  Not only was I able to try the tangerine which I got from Amazon I was also able to try a few of the flavors.  They were all really delicious.  They weren't heavy like a lot of sodas and you could taste the real fruit ingredients instead of the usual artificial flavorings.  The tangerine was especially good.  It was crisp, tart and refreshing and actually made for a nice recovery drink after the race to get some carbs back into the system.  My only complaint is that 8.3oz left me wanting more like a 12oz can.  Very good."
,,,,,yummy!,"A good drink, about 3 WW points. I mean it's about what you'd expect from an orange soda- expect it's all natural, so you recognize the things on the ingredient label.<br /><br />Downside- really a lot of calories for such a small can!"
,,,,,"They need to leave out the sugar, next","The logo on the can states ""0% of what you don't want..."" but that's not quite true. It's quite tasty, but loaded with calories.<br /><br />Next time, they need to leave out the sugar as well.<br /><br />Also, this drink isn't readily available."
,,,,,Too Sweet,"I've tried other flavors of Switch carbonated juice drinks and have enjoyed them. However, this particular flavor of orange tangerine was way too sweet. I felt like I was drinking some sort of carbonated orange ade drink and could barely get it down. While I would probably purchase the other flavors of Switch, I definitely would not purchase this one."
,,,,,"Very good, could be a bit better.","So far I've only tried the Orange Tangerine flavor and it's pretty good overall.  It does have a tangerine taste to it, though it's accompanied by other flavors.  It's clearly much more natural than regular soda or those 10% juice drinks since it's just fruit juice concentrates and carbonated water vs. the typical high fructose corn syrup plus artificial flavors, colors and preservatives in something like Sunkist.  I think the juice blend is appropriate for this type of beverage.  It does contain more apple and grape than tangerine or orange, but those first two juices complement the carbonation well viz a viz sparkling cider.  I think straight carbonated orange/tangerine juice would probably be a bit much.  The Switch reminds me of Appletiser, which is one of my favorites and has been around for many years, but is still pretty hard to find in the US.<br />That having been said, I had to dock one star for a couple of reasons.  First, the cans just seem too small.  If they're sticking with aluminum cans, I'd like to see the standard 12oz size offered.  It seems like that would also have the advantage of making it easier to offer in regular beverage vending machines.  Alternately, 16 or 20oz bottles would also work.  The second issue is the price.  While I understand there's a huge difference between the cost of real juice and artificially flavored corn syrup, the current price still seems high, even in comparison to other juice drinks.  That might be partly because it's from a relatively small company that doesn't yet have the giant economies of scale that the likes of Coke and Pepsi can take advantage of, but it still seems like the price could come down a bit (or at least serving size could increase without a price increase) and it could perhaps still be made back up in increased sales volume.<br />I pick up Appletiser when I can find it, and I'll likely do the same with The Switch, at least from time to time."
,,,,,"Very harsh, too-sweet flavor.","I was anxious to try this, but upon the first sip it was apparent to me that this drink was not going to go well for me.  It has a very sharp/harsh citrus-y metallic flavor and combined with the overwhelming sweetness, the two seem to battle it out in my mouth for dominance.  After awhile it seemed like the drink was going down more like syrup more than a carbonated beverage.<br /><br />The can is small at 8.3 oz (a regular sized pop can is 12 oz) and the cost of these little guys seem a little bit astronomical.<br /><br />I also am a bit dubious of its attempts to seem like a healthy alternative to pop.  It still has loads of sugar in it.  So when they claim ""no additional sugar"" this may lead you to believe no sugar or low sugar... but it does in fact have 34 grams."
,,,,,Extra sweet and very carbonated,"This drink tastes just like soda to me. Very strong and sweetened soda. It reminds me a lot of Fanta back in the day (1970s). I know it says it has all these vitamins and that it's healthy, but the flavor and amount of calories would keep me from buying this drink as a ""health drink"". There are plenty of vitamin and flavored waters and sports drinks that would serve the same purpose without all those calories. If I want a soda, I certainly wouldn't pay a lot of money for something that tastes just like it but costs 4 times as much (at a guess). I do love the taste of Fanta, though."
,,,,,Well it's better than the black cherry anyway,"This is my second can of ""The Switch"" that I'm reviewing under the Amazon Vine program. And while this one is perhaps a bit better it still has the same basic issues -- it's over priced at almost $1 for a mere 8.3oz can in a 24 pack, but more importantly it really just doesn't taste like orange or tangerine at all. The ingredients actually list apple juice as the first type. Now why would you put apple juice in an orange drink? Now don't get me wrong, it tastes exactly like one would expect carbonated juice to taste...but the flavor isn't all that appealing.<br /><br />I love orange juice, drink it every day. I'd love to try carbonated orange juice...but this is far from that. It MIGHT be a good substitute for normal soda for kids, but I can't imagine any other real reason to get this."
,,,,,Not My Thing; But You Might Enjoy,"Note: This is my first review of a product that is not a book, so please forgive me if I miss something.<br /><br />I'm not a huge fan of fruit drinks like The Switch, but I decided to go ahead and give it a shot. After having my first drink, I can honestly say I wanted to hate it. I mean, seriously, I'm drinking this can of 100% fruit juice with carbonation and reading all these really stupid quotes all over the can (i.e. ""100% of what I want in a soda, 0% of what I don't""), wondering how much a 8.3 ounce can of this junk costs (thinking somewhere in the neighborhood of $2.50 or $3.00; and thinking, if I wanted to drink some juice and would drink some juice! I couldn't stop thinking about what is so special about carbonation that I would want to drink this over a glass of OJ. I wanted to scream!<br /><br />However, I kept my cool, and finished the drink. There was something about this particular flavor that was enjoyable, but not engrossing. There was something in the aftertaste that I did not like, and I think it had to do with the tangerine juice. Tangerine's aren't my bag, either; but it was tolerable.<br /><br />After discussing this product with my wife (I know, this drink apparently also contains the conversation starter attributes, bonus points for that I suppose) she was like, ""this sounds great. Is it like those <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001IW25RK"">Izze POMEGRANATE SPARKLING 100% JUICE DRINK</a>??"" I responded: ""Um.... I guess so...""<br /><br />I then also looked up the price and learned that I had grossly overestimated the price of a single can (being just over a single dollar). Despite my wanting to hate this product, I've decided to step out of my anti-contemporary culture box, view this product for what it is, and give it a middle rating of 3 stars.<br /><br />I can see the attraction; I can see the appeal; I just won't ever buy it. I'll stick to my glass of Orange Juice and Tang any day.<br /><br />Good drinking,<br /><br />J.Stoner"
,,,,,"This is really good, especially if you like 100% juice","I really enjoyed this drink.  It tasted just like an orange soda, but I liked it more because it was 100% juice, and didn't have any extra additives.<br /><br />The only negative is that since it is 100% juice (and has no artificial sweeteners) it is high in calories -140 calories to a can, to be exact.<br /><br />However, if I were to choose between drinking this or drinking an apple or orange juice, I definitely would drink this as a treat.  Plus, it would be really fun to pack in a cooler, especially for the young ones in your family.<br /><br />Please note, it is not just a single type of juice.  It is a blend of several juices, so it is not ""carbonated OJ"", it is something just a little different."
,,,,,Much better than regular soda,"I also reviewed the Jones Soda Berry Pomegranate vitamin water and that one fell short because it was mostly water and sugar and cost over $1 per bottle.<br /><br />The Switch Orange Tangerine is much better in my opinion in terms of flavor. It's also carbonated up quite a bit and has added ascorbic acid (Vitamin C) which gives it a lot of tang/bite. For me it isn't unpleasant at all - I like it.<br /><br />Contrary to other reviews, I don't get the medicine aftertaste. It's just a good, refreshing, carbonated drink. I tried this after getting in from a fairly warm bike ride and it does a pretty good job of quenching thirst. I tried it straight from a room temperature can and over ice and both were great. I like it over ice better, though. Then, just for fun, I added some Malibu rum to see how it was as a mixer and it's not bad. I won't be asking for it at a bar, but it gets the fruity flavor with the coconut rum and I think if someone was creative, this could be a match made in heaven.<br /><br />The down side (to me) is this is another fairly pricey drink. The cans aren't full-size cans either. So for almost $1 per can you get a smallish 8.3 ounces but with regular sodas you get 12 ounces - half again as much. Of course, sodas aren't 100% juice either.<br /><br />Upshot is if I'm on a beach somewhere and hot and thirsty, I'd probably buy this. For stocking at home, I'll stick with regular frozen orange juice or orange juice in a carton. I would recommend trying it for yourself, though. This seems to be one of those drinks that could sway pretty hard depending on personal preferences."
,,,,,Interesting switch from soda,"Like many others, I found The Switch Orange Tangerine to be a little hard to classify. It's not too sweet, and not too tart, with a lot of flavor. But it distinctly tastes ""blended"" - creating a ""real"" flavor by playing with others.<br /><br />It doesn't really claim to be healthy, it just insinuates it in a number of ways. On the other hand, it's not too overly sweet like a typical soda and I found the carbonation was just about right.<br /><br />Bottom line - it's fairly tasty, but the small size for the price is a downside."
,,,,,Medicine-like after taste,"I suspect this drink is an acquired taste. After the first sip, I was reluctant to take another. The second sip was an improvement and the third even more so. By the end of the can, I was finding it fairly enjoyable.<br /><br />It was only after I had finished that I noted the Alka Seltzer-like aftermath. Yuck.<br /><br />Still, I am sure I could get used to it after a few more tries. This is, I think, the problem with the drink: I would drink it because it presents itself as being good for me, not because I was blown away with taste or a feeling of refreshment.<br /><br />I would not buy it again."
,,,,,I loved this drink...,"I am very fond of citrus drinks to begin with, so maybe I am biased.<br /><br />But what I liked most about this was it wasn't too sweet and it is all natural.  And it has a real citrus taste not a fabricated one.<br /><br />Love it."
,,,,,The Best Yet,"I was pleased to discover that Switch Orange Tangerine is actually quite tasty.  More please to find out that it contains no sugar, corn syrup or artificial flavors.  What it does have is several healthy ingredients.  I highly recommend it."
,,,,,A solid juice offering,"You know what one of my favorite sounds is? The sound of a can opening. I think it's weird, consider I'm not a huge soda drinker...since I find most sodas too be way too sweet or sugary.<br /><br />This is a review for an Orange Tangerine drink from Switch. I've never heard of them, but I was feeling kind of thirsty so I ordered a can from the vine program. It's an 8.3 ounce can of 100% carbonated juice (plus gum acacia, natural flavors and colors, ascborbic acid and soy). I don't know what to think about some of the ingredients, but I certainly do know that I like: that it's only 8 ounces and that it has no corn syrup!<br /><br />It tastes very similar to canned Minute Maid drinks, especially the Vallencia Orange offering...but does have a slightly sickly sweet aftertaste.  I don't know if I'd run out and buy a 24 pack, but if I saw this in a restaurant I'd definitely consider it as a tasty complement to a sandwich and potato chip lunch.<br /><br />The last thing I like is about the company: it seems to be an independently owned shop, and I like that."
,,,,,Very refreshing!,"Very refreshing!  Ingredients are 3 different fruit juices, sparkling water, and no sugar!  About 150 calories per can, and they're smaller than regular soda cans.  So the ingredients are pretty natural, but 150 calories might be too much for some people!"
,,,,,"""Switch Orange Tagerine""!","100% of what you want, 0% of what you don't is proudly emblazoned upon the can that contains Switch's Orange Tangerine carbonated juice. It certainly tasted all-natural, as there wasn't too much taste really.<br /><br />Don't get me wrong, it was all right, but I would say it tasted kind of like Sprite with a couple of orange flavored Alka-Seltzers tossed in. Another note is that it is rather small at only just over 8 ounces. However, it still had enough orange taste I suppose, so if you want an all-natural mild orange flavored carbonated juice drink, then you've just hit the jack-pot!<br /><br />If not, you may want to pass this up, mildly recommended."
,,,,,Sweet & Fruity,"One of my favorite but rare indulgences is a can of orange soda; so I was looking forward to the combination of bubbles and orange flavor when I popped open my can of Switch Orange Tangerine. To my disappointment, it tasted more like fruit punch, perhaps because of the apple and grape juices in it to sweeten it. I would say the makers of this drink went overboard on the apple-grape combo, not just in the flavor department, but in the sweetness. It's sticky icky sweet, more than any of the cheaper brands (Sunkist, Crush and others) of orange soda, or the higher priced goodies like Orangina and the delectable Izze.<br /><br />It is fairly healthy however, with no bad stuff and quite a lot of Vitamin C (100% based on 2,000 calorie intake), All Natural, etc. My recommendation is for more orange, less apple/grape, or change the label flavor to ""mixed fruit."" It's 140 calories per cute little 8.3 oz can, and if you're not expecting orange you may like it. So far, the taste winner for cute little cans for me is Izze's Grapefruit, which has the perfect balance of flavor and carbonation, with the right amount of sweetness."
,,,,,"""I'd Rather Fight Than Switch""","To me, fruit juice in small cans are simply a staple - first example that comes to mind is good ol' Dole pineapple juice. The trend towards trendy little ""health"" beverages in overpriced little cans is nearly tragic.<br /><br />There is nothing about this product that would compel me to buy it. If I want a soda, I'll just grab one. I don't drink enough of them to have much dietary impact and despite the claim of ""100% What You Want"", there is nothing in here for me. If I want 100% Of What I Want, I will buy a few oranges and some seltzer water. If I want ""0% Of What You Don't Want"", well, why buy it?<br /><br />This is a time when we had better look pretty closely at what is an indulgent convenience and what is a necessity, and how to find a happy medium. I consider the likes of Pellegrino Aranciata, Orangina and Izze a luxury, and when I indulge it is a true delight.<br /><br />""Switch"" is a product that is not better tasting, proven healthier, or even less expensive than any of many other alternatives. Once again marketing is driving product creation and design, and that is a hateful concept.<br /><br />If you want a similar taste experience for about the same price,  pick up some Alka-Seltzer Cold Plus Nighttime- you'll stop sneezing and sniffling and get a great night's sleep."
,,,,,A Wish for Guilt Free Flavor,"The first sip gave a pleasing flavor burst with a light tang of carbonation.  When testing the black cherry flavor, I had placed the can in the freezer for a short period, since I prefer drinks to be ice cold or hot; I didn't want lukewarm to get in the way of a positive response to the first sip.  As the drink warmed a bit, the sweetness overtook the carbonation, which is inevitable in a carbonated beverage, yet, due to the purity of the fruit base, the flavor remained true and welcome.<br /><br />When trying the kiwi flavor, I just had the drink chilled perfectly for me, no ice crystals.  I like the kiwi even better than the cherry!  The kiwi has more tang.  See below (or on the product description on the buying page) for the juice blends used.  I've noticed that most juices currently have apple and grape included, likely because those are cheaper to produce.<br /><br />The way the drink was promoted wasn't a lie!  It worked for me:<br /><br />1. ""100 % of what you want.  0% of what you don't want.""<br /><br />2. ""Make The Switch to a great tasting, all natural beverage that's the perfect balance between JUICE and CARBONATION.""<br /><br />3. The logo has ""THE"" placed upside-down and reversed, atop ""Switch,"" with a swirl designed around the words, the swirl imitating the symbol for reversing something.<br /><br />4. The ingredients read: ""100% juice (filtered sparkling water sufficient to reconstitute juice concentrates, apple, grape, kiwi, acerola* [I added the asterisk; see below] and raspberry and strawberry juice concentrated), natural flavors, ascorbic acid (vitamin C)""<br /><br />5. 100% juice carbonated.<br /><br />6. The can is smaller than the norm for soda pops, which I also liked, because when I used to drink sodas regularly, I usually opened a can and left half of it to get too warm (and fizzed out), so the remainder went down the drain (after I returned it to the fridge for a few days hoping I might drink it).  I drank the whole can of Black Cherry!<br /><br />I decided I liked the near slush state of a short stint in the freezer... leaving it too long, though, might cause too much separation of the fruit concentrate from the fizz water... and, of course, makes it undrinkable from the can until it melts enough to flow through the hole in the top.<br /><br />In the past, when I had begun wanting something more natural than most soda beverages (with phosphates, etc., added), I had used frozen orange juice concentrate added to Club Soda or Ginger ale.  It didn't take long to feel that the process was too much trouble (and it was more expensive than the cost of the Switch product).  Also, I like the types of fruits Switch is using.<br /><br />At first I was confused at the acerola* ingredient, not knowing what it was.  Since my <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00154JDAI"">Kindle 2: Amazon's New Wireless Reading Device (Latest Generation)</a> was at hand, as always, I looked up acerola in the onboard dictionary.  The word wasn't in there, so I pushed the curser to the right, on the arrow for more types of searches, and used my standby, Google, and found several listings of acerola.<br /><br />Briefly, I found that it's thought to have originated from the Yucatan, and is known as Barbados cherry or wild crape myrtle, a tropical fruit-bearing shrub.  Reading into the variety of praiseworthy qualities of that cherry, I was impressed!  It has 32 times the amount of vitamin C as Orange juice, and many other healthful assets.  If you're interested in details, feel free to go Google.<br /><br />I'm beginning to think that many of the flavors available from Switch will include equally intriguing tropical fruits.  (I was glad to see that other flavors also have acerola in them).<br /><br />Though the can is appealing and fine, this beverage is good enough to deserve a designer bottle to appeal to the gourmet crowd who want flavor without true health issues... don't get me started on the myriad of heavy promotions of pseudo health issues.  I have a book in progress to be published on KINDLE, which will debut with steam hissing out of Kindle's ears, at no extra charge!  (I'll add a comment to this review about why I had quit drinking soda pops, which will explain why I will be happily able to welcome Switch into my diet.)<br /><br />My thanks to THE SWITCH for providing a healthy, gourmet quality drink... WITHOUT, thank God, SOYBEANS added!!<br /><br />I'm hooked!<br /><br />Linda Shelnutt<br />Author of several Kindle books and Amazon Shorts<br /><br />P.S.<br />With chagrin and apologies I've had to add comment updates here"
,,,,,"Refreshing, but has Unnatural Aftertaste","The drink is 100% juice concentrate reconstituted with carbonated water.  It tastes like a cross between <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001GN4OHK"">Orangina Sparkling Citrus Beverage with Natural Pulp - 24 Cans</a> and the orange drink from McDonalds.<br /><br />It was refreshing at first, but the aftertaste is abrupt and almost chemically.  It's odd, because the drink doesn't have any unnatural flavors, according to the ingredients list.  If the end flavor was more natural, I would definitely buy it again."
,,,,,Make the Switch to a Healthier Beverage,"The Switch Orange Tangerine presents  an alternative to ordinary soft drinks, offering one- hundred percent of what you want in a drink and zero percent of what you don't want; or so the manufacturer claims. This is a newer brand of beverage and it follows a trend toward healthier alternatives for every day foods and drinks- a trend that has been gaining steam as more and more individuals look for ways to improve their health.<br /><br />This beverage offers a taste that is refreshing, but slightly different than what I expected. Yes, you get to experience the taste of juicy oranges and tangerines, but there are other flavors present as well and I couldn't quite put my finger on these other flavors until I read the ingredients and discovered that The Switch Orange Tangerine is also made with apple and grape juices. The grape is barely noticeable, but the apple can be detected and it, along with added soy, is responsible for the interesting taste sensation that you experience in the aftertaste.<br /><br />The Switch Orange Tangerine is billed as a health drink and it does, indeed, have many positive selling points in terms of composition and nutrition. There is no added sugar, no artificial colors, no corn syrup, and no preservatives. The beverage is also gluten- free and provides one- hundred percent of the USRDA for Vitamin C and twenty percent of the USRDA for Vitamin A. There is no fat and no protein, either. But there are thirty- four grams of sugars and a fairly high level of calories. Granted, these are natural sugars but thirty- four grams is still a large amount and it won't be acceptable to those on low carb diets.  And with almost seventeen calories per ounce, the caloric content is higher than that of most soft drinks.<br /><br />So, are there enough reasons to make the switch to The Switch Orange Tangerine? My answer is yes, due to both its good, refreshing taste and its better than average nutritional content. It isn't the greatest tasting orange beverage I have ever tried and it is more expensive than most other drinks, including regular orange juice. But it does have enough positive points to earn it a recommendation."
,,,,,What's it all about???,"Sorry, but I just don't ""get it"".  You pay almost a buck for 8.3oz (just over a cup) of carbonated water and fruit juice concentrate.  FYI, the first one listed on the can is Apple. . . then Grape. . . then Tangerine. . . then Orange.  The taste is fine, but personally, I would much rather have a glass of fresh-squeezed orange juice. .  .for a lot less $$. The can is small and cylindrical, like an energy drink, but there's nothing in this to give you a ""boost"".  FYI, there are 140 calories in one can.  If you have the $$ to spend, then yes, it's a tasty beverage.  But it's simply not a good value in my book."
,,,,,"I had high hopes, am a bit disappointed","Pros: not overly sweet like some juice drinks<br />  no caffeine<br />  no corn sweeteners (if that matters to you)<br />Cons:  expensive for the size (8.3 ounces)<br />  can't taste the orange or tangerine juices in it<br />  lots of calories<br /><br />I grew up eating oranges and tangerines off my grandparents' trees.  I was surprised that I couldn't taste those flavors in this drink, but then I looked at the ingredient list on the can and those were the juices that were used in the smallest amounts - probably to keep the cost down.<br /><br />I'll stick to the Sobe low-cal drinks and the 10 calorie Vitamin Water because 1 - they are cheaper and  2 - I'd rather save up my daily allotment of calories for something with more flavor."
,,,,,Tastes like soap.,This is not orange and tangerine juice; it's mainly apple and grape juice flavored with orange and tangerine. And I really don't care about the vitamin C content; vitamin C is easy to get.<br /><br />What I do care about is that this is definitely the worst-tasting soda of any type that I have ever tried. I couldn't pour it down the drain fast enough.
,,,,,A ton of tangerine taste - in a tiny can!,"I realize that it is not quite healthy to guzzle 12-16 oz. canisters of liquid at a sitting, but this Switch Orange Tangerine flavored drink was so light and refreshing, and tasted so natural, that I could easily have downed another 8.3 oz can - or two. And that is the only reason this drink did not receive five stars - I wanted more and the little can was just not enough! It is the perfect size for a child, however - so perhaps that who the drink is targeted for. As an aside for those who prefer their beverages more adult-oriented, this Orange Tangerine Switch would make an awesome mixer with gin or vodka - cheers!"
,,,,,Smooth flavor,Expecting something like Fanta or Sunkist I was surprised how smooth and subtle Switch is. Definitely a good combination of refreshment and flavor. Love the fact that it doesn't tast too carbonated.
,,,,,Super Satisfying Taste,I tried the Black Cherry version and liked it but this one is much better.  Great orange taste plus the benefit of juice.  And no corn syrup sweetner for those worried about its use.  The carbonation helps make it a satisfying drink to quench thirst and the knowledge that it is healthy satisfies the mind as well.
,,,,,A decent carbonated fruit drink that offers a healthier alternative to normal soda,"The Switch Orange Tangerine drink is one of the many beverages out there that are trying to offer soda drinkers a slightly healthier alternative without sacrificing the flavor.  No mistake should be made to think that Switch is primarily a fruit drink.  Although it contains 100% juice, Switch is a soda first and a fruit beverage second.  The carbonation, combined with the various citrus flavors, make Switch taste a bit like Mountain Dew with an extra orange kick.<br /><br />Soda fans who like Mountain Dew but want something made of juice should love Switch, as it does offer a slightly healthier alternative to the standard carbonated drink.  Since there are so many fruit juices present each can has 100% of the daily recommended Vitamin C and 20% of the daily recommended vitamin A.  The lack of artificial preservatives does also give it a slightly more crisp taste.<br /><br />It's important to note that Switch isn't ""sugar free,"" but rather has ""no sugar added.""  The distinction is missed by many, and could be very important for diabetics or anyone watching their sugar intake.  The drink actually has 34 grams of sugar in each can, but since it's coming from the fruit juice and not from high fructose corn syrup it's less of a problem for anyone looking for a more healthy drink.<br /><br />The biggest factor in deciding if Switch will be worthy anyone's time depends entirely on how much they enjoy carbonated citrus drinks.  Soda fans who want a fruitier and less artificial drink will probably love Switch.  People who just want fruit juice and don't enjoy the carbonated flavor should probably avoid, however."
,,,,,Nothing great about this,"In fact, I did not like the artificial taste in this orange drink. The degree of carbonation is alright and it does have an ""orangey"" taste to it. But I cannot ignore the artificial taste that accompanies this beverage. For now, I would stick with plain orange juice or other orange sodas like ""Crush""."
,,,,,Too sweet!,"I grew up on orange sodas and thought this might be like a 'healthy' Crush. That would be a NO. Of course, tangerine has a bit of a different taste than orange as it's that much sweeter. Adding the carbonation to it just made it an unappealing fizzy, ultra sweet drink, not unlike cough syrup. Proceed with caution. Perhaps kids would find it super tasty."
,,,,,Nothing special,As the title of my review indicates this product is nothing special in terms of taste. Granted it is missing some of the soda pop bad guys (high fructose syrup and coloring)but the taste is mediocre. This is not something you are going to rave about because of the taste. If you are a health food junkie you might overlook the bland middle of the road taste. Contrary to some reviews I did not find the drink exceptionally sweet but than again everyone has different taste buds. I am not a soda pop drinker so that might have some influence on my less than enthusiastic endorsement. I was switched off. Will this make you give up your favorite soda pop? Probably not. I like the idea of homemade soda water infused juice for that perky fizzing drink better than Switch. Not such a great product in my opinion.
,,,,,Refreshing!,"The taste says fresh-squeezed quality fruit. The carbonation content is lower than some drinks of this variety. This ratio makes for a heavier juice drink. Though a delicious treat, especially with breakfast on the deck, I prefer to save a few calories (140 per can) and have more carbonation."
,,,,,Furniture Polish with an Aftertaste,"The Switch Orange Tangerine looked very promising. 100% juice, with some zippy carbonation. I placed it in the fridge, and let it get a nice chill. Hours later, I popped the top, and my wife and I sampled...<br /><br />And it tasted like drinking furniture polish. It's not like we we're searching for derogatory statements about Switch. Here is how the conversation went:<br /><br />Wife takes a swig, looks at me with eyes all googled. ""Yuck. It tastes like furniture polish.""<br /><br />I take the can from her, thinking she must be insane. I chug some down. ""Ah, yeah...it does taste like furniture polish.""<br /><br />We poured the remainder down the drain. If you enjoy drinking cold tangerine flavored furniture polish, by all means...<br /><br />BTW, this drink left a nasty aftertaste...still belching it up."
,,,,,Yuck!,"I didn't like this drink at all! It had a very strange, almost chemically taste to it. I also didn't appreciate Switch marketing itself as ""all-natural"" but had ingredients like ""natural flavors and colors"". What are they?? Are they even natural?? I even let my three year old try it but she couldn't even swallow it and spit it out in the sink. Too bad. It would have been a good alternative to sodas but not with this horrible taste. My daughter and I much prefer the OOba Hibiscus drink."
,,,,,Very Juicy Like,"As advertised this product puts only a small amount of carbonation in the drink.  The taste is similar to Orangina but with a much more pronounced juice taste and mouth  feel.  It actually leaves a thick taste in your mouth similar to when you drink orange juice from concentrate.  It is a bit high in sugar but at least it is natural fructose sugar from the fruits (again, similar to real orange juice) as there are no added sugars.  Certainly not a calories conscience drink but not bad.  I do think the can is way too small but then again any more and the sugars and calories really soar."
,,,,,Surprisingly Good,"It's basically carbonated fruit juice, but it's heavier on the juice than a similar drink like RW Knudsen's (the latter seems to never hit the spot). This drink is a great balance of fresh fruit taste, the right amount of bubbles and something like ""zing"". Very refreshing and tasty.<br /><br />Highly Recommended."
,,,,,Taste as Advertised,"These 8.3 oz cans of Switch keep their promise. There are no added sugar, no corn syrup, and no preservatives. It is a carbonated all natural 100% juice. Like most of these `juices drinks' the ingredients state 100% Juice in this order; Filtered Sparkling Water Sufficient to Reconstitute Juice Concentrates, (Apple, Grape, Tangerine, Orange, and Acerola Juice Concentrates), Gum Acaia, Natural Flavors and colors, Ascorbic Acid (Vitamin C) and Soy. I was very surprised that this taste like a great Tangerine soda. Each can has 140 calories, 1orNo thanks I am  swimming from 15 mg of sodium, 34g of carbohydrates, 34g of sugar and 100% of RDA of Vitamin C and 20 % of Vitamin A.<br /><br />I would be pleased to drink this sparkling orange/Tangerine flavored juice again. I found it to taste good and be a refreshing drink. But for my money I would rather by the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014X5O1C"">IZZE Fortified Sparkling Juice, Clementine, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a> brand of fortified sparkling juice that has a cleaner taste and fewer calories."
,,,,,Soda Substitute that tastes Similar to the Original,"I'm always on the lookout for soda's that are made using real sugar instead of high fructose corn syrup and fruit juice instead of chemicals. Switch's ingredients are: Filtered Water, apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola juice concentrates, gum acacia, natural flavors and colors and ascorbic acid (Vitamin C). It also says it contains soy so avoid it if you are allergic to soy. One can contains 100% Vitamin C and 20% Vitamin A. It also contains 34 grams of sugar and it tastes like it.<br /><br />The taste of Switch is very similar to regular orange soda which includes the syrupy taste that orange soda has. I personally don't like the syrupy taste and think this is way too sweet. I can see kid's liking the taste however and it is a much better alternative to regular orange soda. 34 grams of sugar is a lot for 8.3 ounces of a drink. I would avoid it for myself but may use it as an occasional substitute for my kids."
,,,,,All natural refreshment,This tangerine soda reminds me a lot of the drink called orangina but with a pronounced tangerine flavor.<br /> It is basically an all natural carbonated juice. It is very refreshing and pleasant tasting. Over all I like it a lot.
,,,,,Powerful little drink,"Four people in my family tasted this orange tangerine drink.  It tasted good to all four people, and agreement from all four is difficult.  It does not taste like a soft drink, but much better.  If you are looking for a fiz that is tart, this is your drink."
,,,,,Tastes like chemicals,"Switch tastes more like chemicals than juice. I was expecting something along the lines of Orangina, instead it's closer to orange soda but without the carbonation level that makes orange soda enjoyable. For a small drink (8.3 oz), it's pretty high in calories (140). Frankly, I don't think the flavor is good enough to justify the caloric level.<br /><br />Bottom line: If you're die-hard soda drinker, this might be a better option for you. If you're a die-hard juice drinker, stick to juice. If you want fizzy juice, add a little seltzer to your fruit juice."
,,,,,Switch Flashback to my childhood - bad memories man,"There are things that I recall from my childhood that I would rather not - being stung by a bee, chicken pox, all the attempts to learn to ride a bike before I actually learned to ride it, and Tang.  Tang was that chalky, never quite dissolved in the water, powdered drink that schools and company picnics would try to pawn off on kids as Kool-aid.  It wasn't Kool-Aid by any stretch of the imagination - it was Tang.  I've never heard anyone ASK for Tang... it was just what was there.<br /><br />So I get my can of Switch in the mail, eyeball the can... it's the same size and shape as an energy drink can... one of those ""single shot"" type cans.  Fearing that it was an energy drink I checked the label... says it's pretty much all juice, carbonation, and some natural flavors (including soy?!?) so I pop it open and take a swig.<br /><br />Now it MAY be 100% natural juices with some natural flavoring - but I know Tang when I taste it.  This is carbonated Tang... I know it is.  Somewhere out there is a giant warehouse filled with cannisters of powdered Tang and someone thought to themselves - what do we do with all of this stuff?  I know, mix it with carbonated water and voila! Now it's not Tang, it's Switch!<br /><br />In all honesty there are probably people out there who will love this drink - but for the price they are asking and the small size of the can - I would suggest whipping up your own Tang with fizzy water.<br /><br />Pros- Pretty much all natural - Juices, natural flavors and no unnatural dyes (good for the ADHD kids).<br /><br />Cons- I personally didn't care at all for the taste, a bit overpriced for what you are actually getting, can will trick many into believing they are buying an energy drink."
,,,,,Interesting. Better than Watermelon.,"Overall the drink was decent. It's tart and sweet at the same time. Switch is alright but might not be worth the money depending on how much you like it. I myself would prefer a Spicy V8 over this. It might be a good substitute for some who don't want to drink as much soda, but for me i'll just stick with the v8 and the occasional soda."
,,,,,A nice alternative to soda,This product has a nice smooth taste with the additional tanginess of tangerine.<br />It also has a little bit of a sweetness to it but syrupy sweet.<br />Not lingering or noticeable aftertaste.
,,,,,Tasty Orange Soda,"This orange tangerine juice bills itself as having ""100% of what you want"" and ""0% of what you don't want."" It is pure orange and tangerine juice with a bit of carbonation, but no added sugar, preservatives and carbonation.<br /><br />Of course, that's all great, but the big question is how it tastes. I'm pleased to be able to say it tastes pretty good. It has a bit less zip than I usually prefer in my orange soda, but a nice orange / tangerine flavor and no noticeable aftertaste. I would definitely try this again if I had the chance."
,,,,,"Not a soft drink, more like carbonated orange juice","When I first glanced at this item, my first thought was a Nehi orange-type soft drink.  However, it is made of 100% fruit juice with carbonation added.  It tastes way too sweet for my taste buds, much more than regular OJ.  In fact, it left an aftertaste in my mouth and I had to brush my teeth right after taste-testing it.<br /><br />I ended up mixing the rest with a shot of vodka and it made a great screwdriver with a kick of carbonation."
,,,,,"Fresh, light taste","I enjoyed the product very much.  I like that it is not overly sweet or heavy.  There is no aftertaste and it goes down smoothly with just enough carbonation to give it body.<br /><br />The tangerine/orange taste I found to be clean.  If you like something that is sweeter, this might not be for you.  But if you enjoy the fruity taste with some carbonation it is quite nice.  I drank it chilled.  I don't think I would have enjoyed it at room temperature.<br /><br />The price might keep me away.  Almost a dollar per 8oz can is kind of tough.<br /><br />Four stars for taste and two stars for price = three stars."
,,,,,Excellent excellent excellent,"This is a very tasty and refreshing little drink.  One of the best orange drinks you will find anywhere.  I only wish it were bigger, because it's that good."
,,,,,Torn,"Switch markets itself as an alternative to soda.  It is essentially carbonated fruit juice with no added sweeteners.  I do agree that if you are a person who drinks a lot of soda or have  child who does, switching to his would be the better alternative.<br />BUT - this drink is not healthy by any means, the amount of fruit juice required for it's tastiness results in a HIGH sugar and calorie content for a fruit juice.  You would not want to drink 5 of these in a day and the better option would be a piece of fruit with less calories and sugar."
,,,,,"No corn syrup, but way too sweet","This soda sounded like a good idea, but it is just too sweet. The orange and tangerine juice is clear and bitter tangy but the sugar in this particular flavor is overwhelming to me. (On the other hand I liked the cherry very much.) I would drink it anyway, if it were offered, it certainly is not terrible. But I would not buy it again."
,,,,,I recommend other flavors instead,"I wrote a 5 star review of the Kiwi Berry flavor.  That isn't usually my favorite flavor of anything, but it was surprisingly good.<br /><br />Orange Tangerine (which would generally be among my first picks of fruit-flavored beverages is flat by comparison -- literally.<br /><br />It seemed to lack the right amount of carbonation.  It also tastes weaker and too sweet.<br /><br />Try the Kiwi Berry instead."
,,,,,"Crisp, and suprisingly sweet drink, but lots of calories AND pricey","I really enjoyed the Switch.  It was a lot more carbonated than most sodas and stayed that way until I finished it.  I was also surprised that no sugar was added since it was sweet and had real crisp, tangerine taste.  It was similar to Sunkist pop but it tasted more like real juice.  I enjoyed the taste and if you have the extra money and want a healthier alternative, you might want to give it a try, but it is still 140 calories per can.  So it isn't exactly a diet drink.  And the price for the Switch is about 4 times the cost of most soft drinks so I think it would be out of the range for most people's pockets."
,,,,,Too sweet to drink uncut.,"Now, we're not big juice drinkers in this family.  We take apple juice or cherry juice and mix it with unflavored seltzer water because otherwise we find it too sweet.  This is the same.  It's nicely carbonated, and it has a pretty authentic fruit taste, but it's still too sickly sweet.  Cut it half and half with unflavored seltzer and a little ice and you'll be happy."
,,,,,small size and mediocre taste,"8.3 ounces and a tad expensive is what I'd say about this drink.34 grams of sugar is also a negative for me. I'm not a sugar lover. All in all not big enough to quench my thirst,and not delicious enough to find me coming back for more.Natural but not that intensely citrus."
,,,,,"Switch ""Orange Tangerine"" is misnamed...and perhaps a bit overpriced, and NOT A DIET DRINK!","""Switch `Orange Tangerine'"" is advertized as 100% juice with carbonation.  They were accurate as far as the 100% juice and (light) carbonation goes, but imagine my disappointment when I checked the ingredients, and I read the following: ""100% juice (filtered sparkling water sufficient to reconstitute juice concentrates, apple, grape, tangerine, orange, and acerola juice concentrates)...<br /><br />BTW - acerola is also known by the common names Barbados cherry and wild crapemyrtle. It's a berry that has extremely high amounts of Vit C.<br /><br />Anyway, back to the drink.  When I ordered this item I was expecting a carbonated ""orange tangerine"" drink, but that was not the taste I got.  After all, tangerine and orange are present in smaller amounts than grape and apple juices.  As a result this drink had a flavor more like a mixture of sparkling grape and sparking apple combined, with somewhat of a light citrus twist, but less carbonation than either sparkling grape or sparkling apple have.<br /><br />The overall flavor of ""Switch"" was all right, but it was not, in my opinion ""orange tangerine"" at all.  In that respect this drink was a great disappointment.  The manufacturer would have been more accurate to name this drink ""fruit punch"" or ""fruit cocktail"" or perhaps ""grape-apple"".  There is, by the way, already a ""fruit punch"" version...I wonder what's in that flavor that's not in this one?<br /><br />The can size is just adequate at 8.3 oz, but is, I would say, fairly expensive at nearly $1/can, especially when it's not what you thought you were getting.<br /><br />The drink does, to its credit, have 100% of the recommended daily amount of Vit C, and has only natural juices in it.  That is probably true, but...THIS IS NOT A DIET DRINK.  Just because the can says ""no sugar added"", that doesn't mean that there's no sugar in it.  There happens to be a significant amount of sugar in this drink (given the total volume you get/can)...if I recall correctly the contents label said 35g of sugar.  That's because 100% fruit juice is loaded with sugar, sugar like fructose.<br /><br />OK, frankly, the taste combo doesn't particularly appeal to me, that's why I didn't order the grape version of this product, and now that I know what's in the ""orange tangerine"" I wouldn't order it again.<br /><br />I'm torn between 2 and 3 stars though, simply because it's not really an orange-tangerine drink as advertized.  I guess I'll have to go with 2 stars.  (I don't know why 3 stars showed up for this product!?)  Alas..."
,,,,,Yuck!,I tried this along with two of my children and we all agreed that it tastes like spoiled OJ but fizzier. Maybe it would be an acquired taste but I won't  be drinking it again to find out.<br /><br />Oddly enough the black cherry version is quite good.
,,,,,Very Tasty Natural Drink,I really enjoyed this drink. The tangerine is very present and makes it very tasty. This drink is 100% natural and has no sugar added. The carbonation makes it a bit like a soda but a lighter and healthier one.<br /><br />I enjoyed it and I would definitely recommend it to others as an excellent alternative to regular soda.
,,,,,Excellent,"Pop the can and get sensory caress from the orange scent.<br />The taste is pure citrus bliss. Great flavor. I'd say the flavor is halfway between fresh orange juice and really good orange soda. The tangerine is definitely present, but mostly only as a very pleasent after taste.<br /><br />Love it."
,,,,,Excellent!!,Good things come in small packages!! This is an excellent non-soda thirst quencher. No sugar but an outstanding taste!!
,,,,,Ok Soda--like slightly lugubrious tang in a can.,"How can tang be lugubrious?  If you made it a bit watered down, a bit more aftertasty, a bit less child-friendly.  It's an all right soda, but I don't feel the thrill of drinking it that I did drinking tang as a child.  I can't pretend I'm an astronaut with this.  Sometimes, advertising just helps."
,,,,,Not bad.  Nothing special about it.,"Taste like tang, only more expensive.  I'm not a fan of tang.  If you love tang and want some convenience, this just might be the drink for you."
,,,,,Never received the product,"Sadly, I was supposed to receive this product, but never did.  I imagine it's good given the others I've tried, but alas, that won't happen.  Still, I have to write a review, so there you go."
,,,,,Not bad at all,"The Switch Orange Tangerine, 8.3 Ounce can packs a big punch in a teeny tiny can. Touted as a healthy alternative to soda, I couldn't help but taste the similarity between Switch and Coke's Fanta orange drink. The difference however is more than plain. Switch is supposedly 100% carbonated fruit juice with no added sugars. It actually has a pretty good taste -- if it is all natural, then I think kids would love it. I liked the carbonation -- it had tons of bubbles and a light airy feel to it. All in all, I would buy this product again.<br /><br />Natalie S. for Amazon Vine"
,,,,,"okay, but...","Here's yet another carbonated juice drink, comparable with OOBA Hibiscus With Orange, 16 Ounce Bottle (Pack of 12) & <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0014X5O1C"">IZZE Fortified Sparkling Juice, Clementine, 8.4-Ounce Cans (Pack of 24)</a>.  This one, however, is an unusual combination of orange & tangerine.  I didn't really like the flavor much though I like both orange & tangerine separately.  But, the taste is in the bud (s).  I prefer the Izze of the 3.  As for the juice, it's more apple/grape than orange/tangerine & the Vit. C is the silly recommended dose--to prevent scurvy--not much really (per Linus Pauling).  True, it doesn't have corn syrup/sugar/or substitutes--which is nice.  But, at close to $1/8.3 oz it's equivalent to about $1.50 for 12 oz (in a pack of 24 small cans).  Seems pricey to me--why not just buy orange juice?"
,,,,,No.,"I thought it would have a clean, crisp taste, but it honestly tasted just like every other orange soda I've ever had.  Maybe that's deliberate; maybe they're targeting people who would otherwise drink orange soda, unless presented with a more ""natural"" alternative...  Regardless, it tastes exactly like carbonated reconstituted juice concentrates, with some orange coloring thrown into the mix, i.e., nothing special."
,,,,,It's all in the numbers...,"The advert for Switch describes it as a ""healthy alternative to soda"" and ""a perfect balance beween juice and carbonation."" To get right to it, let us tackle the first claim. The can of Switch I got (Orange Tangerine) was 8.3 fluid ounces. Those 8.3 ounces contain 36g carbs, 34g sugars and 15g sodium and packs 140 calories. To put this in perspective, the 20 fluid ounce bottle of vanilla Coke sitting on my desk right now  contains 28g carbs, 28g sugars and 25mg sodium, and has 100 calories. In other words, a bottle of conventional soda 2.5x as large has less calories, less carbs, and less sugars. Granted, Switch has less sodium, but if we poured equivalent amounts of drink, i.e. 20 oz vs. 20 oz, it would have much more. The drawing power of Switch, then, is that it boasts 100% RDA of Vitamin C and 20% RDA of Vitamin A vs 0% in these categories for Coke, and that it has plenty of carbonation to satisfy the taste of soda-lovers. In my mind this doesn't quite balance the scale<br /><br />As to the second claim: I liked the balance between a fruit juice and a carbonated drink. It reminded me of Orangina in that it is sharp and crisp and has a bite to it, but it might strike some as too sugary-sweet. All in all I think this is likely to be one of those drinks that people like very much or no at all, no in-betweens. However, it can be considered ""healty"" only in small doses (one can day, say) and should be avoided by low-carb dieters."
,,,,,Didn't Taste Great!,"The only good thing was that it was not sweet, but the taste was just bad. I could understand and tolerate the taste if it was an energy drink, but this is not an energy drink.  I have been very open and have tried different carbonated orange drinks, and I have to say this is the least favorites of the 9 other carbonated orange drinks.  I prefer just mixing carbonated water with orange juice."
,,,,,"No sugar, but not low-calorie","This product is tasty -- it's carbonated juice (a blend of several juices, mostly apple, grape, tangerine). But the 8.3 ounces costs $1 and contains 140 calories. This is a little rich for me, both economically and calorically. I would recommend this for someone who doesn't mind spending their money and calories on juice."
,,,,,"Too much sugar, too expensive","The Switch Orange Tangerine sounded delicious when I ordered it. I thought it would be very refreshing on these hot summer days. And it would be if the taste were better. Perhaps the other flavors might be better but the orange tangerine had a bad aftertaste. Stick with the real juice if you want that flavor. The sparkling juice idea is good, I liked the carbonation as it was refreshing.<br /><br />But the biggest drawback for me is the sugar. There was 34g of sugar in that little 8 oz. can. There is 40g in a 12 oz. can of Dr. Pepper. Way too much sugar.<br /><br />The other drawback for me is the price. I wouldn't buy it because it works out to be almost a dollar a can. If I'm going to pay that much, I would rather buy the regular juice (real, not reconstituted) in the store."
,,,,,Switch On,This product is a light and fruity carbonated beverage.  You might ask how that's different from any other soda.  The difference is that this one leans more on the fruit side rather than the soda or sugar side.  I liked that about it.  While it was sweet it wasn't syrupy sweet to the point that it was cloying and it did not have a strong after taste.  Also it had a much more juicy aspect to it.  Its kind of hard to describe but the best comparison I can make is it's like one of those fruity V8 juices only carbonated.  Maybe that's not right either but I'd recommend trying this at least once.  It just may be a taste you'll find you'll like again.
,,,,,A Nice Change,"The citrus flavor is crisp and clear in this carbonated juice.  It's not too sweet, and the bonus of having no added HFCS or sugar is a winner.  The carbonation cuts the sweetness in a nice tart balance.  It is still high in calories, like any juice is, but I would definitely turn to this beverage over any of the manufactured sodas that contain added sugar, HFCS or preservatives."
,,,,,Not bad,"Switch Orange Tangerine is ok but not what one might expect.  First of all, there is more apple and grape juice in here than orange or tangerine (this will not be a surprise if you are familiar with the other flavors as that is also true with them).<br /><br />Switch basically is carbonated juice.  The taste isn't a bad and it is supposed to be healthier than soda (which can be debated).  It is a reasonable drink for snacks but if you are going to need several if you are actually thirsty."
,,,,,"Questionable ""healthy"" drink...","Unlike another product I reviewed for Vine, at least this product does not have sugar per se in it. It is carbonated water added to a concentrate mixture of (in this order): apple, grape, tangerine and last - as well as least -- acai concentrate. The first two on the list, apple and grape are two of the most common ""fruit"" sweeteners used in beverages etc. That is why the product tastes sweetened.<br /><br />It has 140 calories -- quite a lot for 8 oz of flavored carbonated water -- and all of it is from carbohydrates (36 grams) and over 90% of the carbs (34 grams) are sugars. Apple and grapes have some of the highest concentrations of ""fructose"" a fruit sugar that not only commonly appears in commercial beverages because it is sweeter than regular cane sugar and thus it is cheaper to use, but it is also known to cause diarrhea, particularly in children.<br /><br />So another drink on the hit parade of ""pretend"" healthy drinks- appealing to the masses' concern for their ever-growing girth -- and deluding them that this will help forestall continued growth.<br /><br />You are better off drinking diet coke. You would be even more better off buying the sparkling flavored waters with no calories. My favorite is Bella Familglia -- in pomegranate, lime, lemon and orange flavors -- and is sold from time to time on Amazon as well as your local supermarket.<br /><br />Better yet, buy some organic pure fruit juice -- such as pomegranate and pour  1/8 cup in a glass of your favorite sparking water or a quarter cup in a 16 oz bottle of your favorite sparkling water. At least it is the actual juice and not some fructose extract."
,,,,,"It's all natural, but that doesn't mean it's good for you...","I think the Switch is a beverage with soda replacement in mind.  The can boasts it contains 100% of what one wants (being all natural, 100% juice, full daily serving of vitamin C, and the clincher, carbonated), while having 0% of what you don't want (no added sugar, corn syrup, preservatives or colors.)<br /><br />The Good - So with that in mind, I have to agree that it is refreshing to see companies trying to fill the void in ""sodas"" with no corn syrup, with tons of juice and vitamins to boot.  I like that you get a full dose of vitamin C, and a little bit of A.  As for taste, it has a nice slightly crisp bite of carbonation, and it's very orange tangerine-y.  It's a little heavy (read syrupy without being too sweet), but it does have a reconstituted juice base, so it gets a pass.  It's also in a single serving-size can (8.3oz), which is nice considering I typically treat most 20oz bottles as a serving, even though it's 2 and a half and I tend never do the math to figure out the true content of what I'm drinking.<br /><br />The Bad - The price is a bit steep.  At about a dollar a can, it's roughly twice the price as most 100% juices you can find, including most selections of orange juice.  Whereas a 64 ounce carton of Tropicana will run you upwards of four dollars, 8 cans of the Switch would cost eight bucks.  For soda lovers, the Switch is about twice the cost compared to your average 20oz bottle, and roughly 4 times the cost of cans (when comparing equal amount by the ounce.)  Also, read the ingredients, it contains more apple and grape juice than orange or tangerine, which means that the taste is probably aided by the natural flavors (which doesn't mean oranges, just that it was derived from natural substances not chemically made.)<br /><br />The Ugly - The Switch seems straight forward, but it's also a little devious which leads me to my biggest complaint.  Granted it's all natural, but each 8oz can contains 36g of carbs, 34 of sugar alone.  That's more sugar than soda, in some cases by almost 10 grams a serving.  More sugar (even if it's not corn syrup) is more calories per can, so even at it's single serving size you'd almost be better off drinking a Coke and taking a vitamin C pill."
,,,,,To much and not enough...,"The carbonation in this drink was way too much. So much in fact, that it over powered the flavor. (Orange-tangerine is usually very good together).  I expect this from a soda, but not a ""healthy"" drink. Lose some of that club soda bite and you have one delicious drink. Until then, I'll pass."
,,,,,Strange...,"On the face of it, THE SWITCH Orange Tangerine beverage sounds quite good. It's a mix of concentrated fruit juices with mildly carbonated water. No added sugar, preservatives or caffeine are there to annoy the health-conscious. You get 140 calories from one 8.3 ounce can. (Probably too small a serving for most people.) There are small portions of natural flavor and coloring, gum acacia, ascorbic acid (i.e., Vitamin C) and soy. In case quantities, it's priced at under a dollar per can. Sounds pretty decent, right?<br /><br />The trouble is: it just doesn't taste that good to me. There is a vaguely unpleasant metallic quality to this stuff that I can't imagine many people warming up to. Perhaps the juice has reacted with the aluminum of the can. Perhaps my can had been sitting on the shelf for too long. Perhaps the acerola juice in the mix is an acquired taste; it's something I haven't tried before. Perhaps I got a bum can. Perhaps THE SWITCH just plain sucks. I really don't know, but I do know that I won't be drinking any more of it in the near future."
,,,,,"Good Ingredients, Weak Taste","It's a small drink at just 8.3 ounces but that's probably the size drink we should all be consuming so I wont ding it on that point. It's made with good ingredients and as it says `No Sugar Added' but don't let that fool you into thinking it's low in sugar having 34 grams. A Coke contains 45g of sugar but it's almost 50% larger so even without adding sugar this is a drink that's fully loaded. In defense of The Switch at least the sugar is natural with no high fructose corn syrup. Obviously it has no caffeine which I have some issues with so that's a plus over soda although at 36g of carbs it seems a bit high and 140 calories is nothing to sneeze at.<br /><br />So it can't be considered a health drink since you can get lower sugar, carbs and calories from a similar size glass of Tropicana orange juice. So how is the taste? My wife described it as tasting like soap. I wouldn't go that far but I will say the despite its good ingredients it actually tasted artificial to me. I wasn't a big fan and personally I'm going to stick with water and orange juice.... and beer."
,,,,,Healthy Drink that tastes GREAT,I was really surprised at the taste of the Switch Orange Tangerine drink. It reminds me of carbonated orange juice. It is a little on the sweet side but not too bad in my opinion. This is actually a beverage that I could drink all the time and not get tired of.<br /><br />The BEST thing about Switch is that it is HEALTHY for you and it doesn't have any added sugars and it has a lot of Vitamin C. Switch is a all natural beverage which is great. You can have the carbonation of a soda without all the unhealthy unnatural ingredients of a soda.<br /><br />If you want a great tasting drink that is healthy for you then I highly recommend Switch. If you like orange juice then I think you'll really enjoy this. The cans are a little on the smaller side though.
,,,,,Good for sipping - a LOT of sugar!,"It has a nice taste.  Good for sipping.  If you drink soda or juice with your meals, this would be a decent alternative.  The tangerine taste is pronounced but not overpowering.  The carbonation is pleasant.<br /><br />However, it's not a drink I would normally imbibe.  I normally drink either water or beverages sweetened with something other than sugar.  And this has a LOAD of sugar.  Yes, they say it has no added sugar.  That's probably accurate.  But the natural sugar in the apple/tangerine/orange juices in this drink adds up to 34 grams.  Compare that to the same amount of Coke at 27 grams!  I checked a few other tangerine flavored sodas - they all had similar amounts of sugar as Switch.  I suppose tangerines are loaded with sugar.  Anyway, that's a lot more sugar than I normally drink.<br /><br />If the sugar isn't an issue, this is worth checking out."
,,,,,cloying,"This drink is very, very sweet, and only mildly carbonated.<br /><br />I don't drink soda, but i do occasionally like bubbles in my drinks. I had some hope that Switch would be a nice bubbly fruit drink to fill this need, but it's not. The ingredients may be all-natural, but it's still syrupy, and has an odd aftertaste that i think is from the added vitamin C.<br /><br />For regular soda drinkers, the sweetness may not be as offensive, but for anyone expecting something that tastes like sparkling fruit juice, this will be a disappointment. I'd still choose this over an orange soda, but i'd choose to have nothing at all rather than this.<br /><br />Also, note that the cans are only 8.3 ounces each, smaller than normal 12oz soda cans."
,,,,,Sweet and Refreshing!,"I really enjoyed this drink!  I am a lover of both orange juice and sunkist type drinks so I was very eager to try this drink.  It is the perfect combination of sweet and fruity!!!  The tangerine I believe helps give the extra lift of the sweet taste.  If you're trying to cut back on pop, I highly recommend this drink or even just for a refreshing treat!"
,,,,,A Muddy Orange Flavor,"While orange juice is the fourth ingredient in this drink,  the dominant flavor is a muddy orange which is backed up by a low level of carbonation.  I think that the use of the inexpensive apple and white grape juices as the first two ingredients (tangerine is third) is what results in the unpleasant muddied orange taste. Finally they threw in a bit of acerola juice but to no avail.  To my taste this stuff is suprisingly unpalatable.<br /><br />While the marketing suggestion is that the natural ingredients make these juices healthy that idea is negated by the high level of completely ""natural"" sugar in this or most any juice.  The healthy alterative to overly sugared fruit juices is to have a glass of cold water and a piece of fresh fruit.  Fruit has less calories than juice but overall more vitamins, minerals and fiber and a variety of natural antioxidants that most likely really are good for you."
,,,,,Some Things Were Not Meant to be Carbonated,"I ordered this product after enjoying a previous Vine acquisition--<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00094JEUO"">Izze Sparkling Clementine Soda Full Case (24 12oz Bottles)</a>--fully expecting to like it.  It appears that the use of 100% juice in this product makes a big difference from the Izze's use of 70% juice/30% sparkling water.  I like Izze, but do not like Switch much.<br /><br />Switch tastes -- and is -- just like orange juice, except it is carbonated.  I do not think orange juice was meant to be carbonated.  It just doesn't add anything to the taste or consistency that I found enjoyable.  It also left a lengthy aftertaste of juice burps which I did not enjoy.  So it is not that the makes have done anything wrong or poor quality, it is just that this reviewer did not like how the concept worked out."
,,,,,Tasty alternative to the usual sodas,"I'm a big fan of avoiding corn syrup and a lot of the other ingredients that go into most processed foods and beverages these days, so this beverage idea really sounded good to me.  It doesn't contain a bunch of artificial junk in it, and it still tastes pretty good.  I could definitely drink more of these.  They won't ever be my favorite beverage, but then I'm more of a non-carbonated kind of drinker anyway.  This is definitely a good alternative to other products out there, and I'd like to try other flavors as well."
,,,,,Just a soda,"Switch is a decent soda, and definitely worth considering for those who want mainly natural ingredients. But I think it is overstating it a bit when the Switch can claims ""100 % of what you want and 0 % of what you don't want"" - or is soy something I would expect or want in a soda?<br /><br />For my personal taste, this Switch flavor (which was the only one I tried) was too sweet. It is hard to believe that there is no sugar added to that stuff.<br /><br />So - ok, but not great. I prefer <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000NU4VSO"">Izze Sparkling Pomegranate Soda 4 Pk (4-12 ounce bottles)</a> or any of the Izze flavors over Switch."
,,,,,only so-so....,"well, my husband, myself and my 12 year old son sampled this drink. My husband hated it. I felt like it was OK, but nothing to write home about. The taste to me was too orangey and for a ""natural"" product it sure didn't taste like one. My 12 year old liked it. He also likes gummy worms and sour straws, so you can take his review for what it is.<br /><br />I personally wouldn't buy this product.<br />2 stars"
,,,,,Meh...,"To be blunt, I was throughly underwhelmed with this product and I am finding it hard to come up the words to describe why, but the problem is that orange SWITCH doesn't have a lot going for it, so there isn't a lot one can say about it.<br /><br />To me, this product is canned orange juice and club soda, packaged in a trendy little can.<br /><br />And like all canned orange juice (Blue Bird brand, et. al.) there is an off taste to it that reminds you it isn't fresh squeezed juice.  Add to that this fizzy aspect, and its just kinda, well, there.<br /><br />I can't say that this is a healthy drink - orange juice has some of the highest concentrations of sugars for a fruit drink.  And its cost per can is steep, especially when compared to making this stuff at home with club soda and fresh squeezed juice.<br /><br />I can't give it one star - I would reserve that for something undrinkable as Amazon requires a minimum one star to do a review.  So my two star rating should be taken to mean that you can drink it and its unoffensive, but thats about all you can say about it."
,,,,,a great soda.....,"I  highly recommend Switch if you are looking for a soda that doesn't have refined sugar and is loaded with flavor.  Sweetened with fruit juice (as opposed to high fructose corn syrup), this will definitely quench your thirst.  Plus, all you Tangerine lovers out there, this is the next best thing to eating the actual fruit!"
,,,,,Going beyond sugar water + CO2,"A nutritionist once told me she could find something good about every food...except soda. Pop is full of CO2 (carbon dioxide), something our body is trying to get rid of, and refined sugar (which can ruin the teeth and provides empty calories). But even so, I still love it. I love the fizz tingling down my throat while while cleaning my palate and replacing it with sweetness. Nutri-sweet brings down the calories at the expense of flavor and has side effects like headaches and giving me a gnawing hunger.<br /><br />For fun occasions, I'll mix lemon-lime or plain soda water with juices for a delightful, and slightly healthier alternative to soda. Will the Switch Orange Tangerine soda live up to my expectations? A carbonated juice in a can?<br /><br />At first glance, the Switch can is...cute. It's a slender can with nice artwork. Fun to hold in your hand when you're used to the typical can.<br /><br />But when I taste it, I'm sorry to say, I'm a little disappointed. The Orange Tangerine Switch soda is not as tasty as regular orange soda, nor as orange juice. For a disclaimer, I'll mention that orange juice is not something that would normally taste great carbonated, so the other flavors of Switch might taste better. I got a kind of odd, bitter taste as I drunk the soda, but afterwards there was a pleasant aftertaste. The bitterness might be present in regular soda, but this is orange juice (with some others mixed in) and I know how it tastes without carbonation.<br /><br />I gave the Switch soda to both of my daughters who happily swigged it down with no concern from the odd taste I noticed.<br /><br />So while I won't be happily exchanging my occasional soda for Switch, I'm glad they are trying to do something a little healthier than we can feel more comfortable giving our children. And really, on a hot day, this would hit the spot."
,,,,,Nice Fruity Flavor,"I really enjoy trying new things, so I found the idea of this soda pleasing.  It is essentially carbonated fruit juice, so it is naturally high in calories and thus comes in a small container that looks a lot like an energy drink.  I think this might confuse some, leading to negative reviews based on the wrong preconceptions of what it is meant to be.  However, I think a very valid complaint comes from some that feel this ""natural"" drink tastes a bit artificial.  This is likely due to the use of fruit juices from concentrate, which always effects the flavor.  However, unlike the watermelon flavor, I found this variety vibrant and delicious.  The fruit flavor really comes through, including the often tricky tangerine.  It is an expensive treat, but would make a fun addition to breakfast in lieu of a similarly high calorie cup of orange juice."
,,,,,"As Jules from Pulp Fiction would say, this is a tasty beverage!","I wasn't sure what to expect with this, but upon tasting it (very chilled), I have to admit, it's pretty darn tasty!<br /><br />To give you an idea of what it tastes like:  Take orange juice.  Give it the familiar ""bite"" of your favorite carbonated beverage.  Add a little tangerine for a slight citrus aftertaste, and there you go.  Basically, it looks and smells like orange juice, but it tastes like orange pop *should* taste, if it really tasted like oranges.  My wife said it reminded her of Minute Maid orange pop (or, as she would call it, orange *soda*).<br /><br />Our four-year-old son is eager to drink pop because he sees mom and dad do it occassionally, but we generally don't let him.  After reading the nutritional information on the can and seeing that there's no added sugar, corn syrup, preservatives, or artificial flavors, I can admit that I would have no problem letting him drink this instead of juice occassionally (but not *too* often, as it is quite a bit of sugar!).<br /><br />My wife made the observation that this drink would probably make a fantastic mixer for adult beverages.  Sadly, the sample we received was not enough to test this theory, but it should make a really, really good screwdriver."
,,,,,Pretty good...,"I gave this a try because I love carbonated juice-stuff like bottled cranberry, apple, grape from Welch's and the like.<br /><br />Personally I liked this pretty well, though not as much as some other brands.  To me, it tastes and smells like tangerine, and I felt like I could kind of taste some of the component flavors making it up-the flavor is more complex than you'd get from a fruit flavored soda.  The carbonation is pretty light<br /><br />I definitely wouldn't mind trying some of `The Switch's other flavors...BUT, I split some of the tangerine flavor with a relative, and she thought it smelled like Jell-O, and didn't care for it-she said she'd rather have regular juice.<br /><br />I definitely liked this better than orange soda though!"
,,,,,Great alternative,Switch is a GREAT alternative to sodas for our family! Love them and I don't feel bad about the kids drinking them.  Great variety of flavors! I just wish they were more easily found in stores.
,,,,,"My Son's Favorite ""Soda""","We really have to limit additives and sugar for our son with Autism. Switch Orange Tangerine really fills the bill. He feels like he's getting ""real"" fizzy soda, and mommy is happy it's not loaded with chemicals and additives and actually has real juice in it. A total win-win."
,,,,,tangy,"If you like your drink not so smooth and a bit ""tangy""...this should work for you ....but... alas! ... not for  me.."
,,,,,Great Product!,Switch is a fantastic replacement for sodas. You still enjoy having the carbonation but with fruit juice. It is very satisfying.
,,,,,Great Orange Bevvie,Seriously a great orange drink on par with Orangina without being super crazy sweet.  I have purchased this frequently since my first taste of it through the Vine program. Also! Goes great with vodka or tequila!
,,,,,My kids love it...,Its nice to have a 'treat' to give my kids that they feel like they are getting soda---they love the taste and I don't feel like I'm having to compromise any quality .....<br />I don't enjoy soda but I do enjoy this product and occasionally will grab a can--great product at a good price!
,,,,,Nice Alternative,"This is the only flavor of switch I have tried.  It tastes just fine and is not overly sweet.  The carbonation is nice.  More importantly though, this makes a FANTASTIC mixer to use with vodka."
,,,,,"Way, way, WAY too sweet - 29g of suger in a 8.3 oz can, soda doesn't have this much sugar!","Ouch, this stuff is sweet, as in REALLY sweet...  This is really harsh tasting and we were disappointed.  Most soda doesn't have this much sugar, the 8.3 oz can has 29 grams of sugar, yikes!  For a 12 oz can of soda, that would be like having 45 grams of sugar, who would drink that?<br /><br />They need to water this WAY down, we're going to end up giving the rest of this away, we can't drink it."
,,,,,Delightfully Delicious & Natural Tasting!,"Firstly, I hate orange flavored sodas. They all taste like ultra-fake chemical laden floor cleaner to me.  Switch is definitely NOT the case.  Finally an orange soda that tastes like real oranges and tangerines- who knew!  I thoroughly enjoyed this fizzy delight, which reminded me of <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001E3HLX6"">San Pellegrino Aranciata Sparking Beverage - 24/11.5 oz cans</a> but sweeter.  This, and ALL Switch beverages are highly recommended."
,,,,,Actually tastes like real oranges,"I really enjoyed this soda. I used to be a big fan of Orangina a few years ago but Switch Orange Tangerine is WAY better -especially if your looking for a true orangey taste. A cold one of these would be very refreshing on a hot summer day. Tastes sort of like real orange juice mixed with seltzer, which begs the question why not just mix it yourself? (if your at home that is). But I wouldn't hesitate buying one of these when out and about. Very tasty."
,,,,,different than regular soda,I have tried a couple different flavors of this soda and found it to be pretty good.Its lighter than regular soda.
,,,,,Too Sweet - Too Late,"The only way we could make Switch Orange-Tangerine drinkable was mixing 50/50 with club soda. It was just way too sweet. It then tasted good, but Orangina and San Pelligrino both have awesome Orange flavored sodas out there with no need to mix! And surprisingly, imported San Pelligrino comes out to be cheaper because the cans are larger (11.3 oz. as opposed to 8 oz)."
,,,,,A tangerine drink that doesn't taste watery! Hooray for Switch!,"All of the Switch drink flavors taste good and go down refreshing, but this was the one that made me skeptical until I opened the can. It does taste like fresh tangerines, and the flavor is bright and not weak or watery. There's just enough fizz to add some interest, but none of the bad stuff people like to avoid in a soda: you know, artificial flavors and colors, preservatives and all that. It's just juice with fizz. In fact, it's good juice with fizz!"
,,,,,"Really, just bubbles and vitamin C","The product description says that it's ""just juice, bubbles and vitamin C."" Really, it's just the last two. It's not entirely flavorless, but I've tasted plenty of beverages that are much better than this one with a lot less carbonation.<br /><br />And, honestly, this ""healthy"" drink is rather easily replaced by a multivitamin pill. It's not really good for you, it's just not directly bad for you. Sincerely, I'm fairly sure that sucking on my couch cushions would garner you more nutrition than a Mountain Dew, so it's not like ""better than soda"" is really setting the bar high.<br /><br />Rather disappointing, particularly compared to the other Switch beverages."
,,,,,Tasty,"This was pretty tasty, but orange has never been my favorite. I recommend it if you like oranged flavored drinks. I absolutely love the strawberry kiwi. These drinks are not too sweet, natural and refreshing I will continue to try them. My beverage of choice is water and milk (and wine ;0) )...but for an ocassional treat drinks like these are great.<br />Try them."
,,,,,They got it right,"One of my longtime favorite drinks is a half-and-half combination of club soda and fruit juice. Most fruit juices by themselves are a bit too sweet for me (even the ones without added sugar), and the addition of carbonation just makes the whole thing more agreeable to me. This drink does this for me, and amazingly, they do not add a boatload of sugar. Too many off-the-shelf beverages--even those claiming to be healthful--have way too much sugar (or worse, the cheap corn syrup sugar substitute). These guys give it none of that. It's both tasty and refreshing. This is a product I would actually buy."
,,,,,Exactly what is claims to be!,"I really liked this drink.  It's 100% juice with no added sugar, so even though the sugar content is a little high, it has more nutrients than soda will have any day.  Switch tastes like tangy, carbonated orange drink, and that's fine with me!  I didn't notice any aftertaste, and I could feel safe drinking something fizzy (and tasty, unlike sparkling water) without feeling guilty about it.  But beware - each can is only 8.3 ounces, a little more than a cup.  You decide if it's worth it."
,,,,,"Quite tasty & enjoyable, sweet carbonated beverage!","I like this 'Orange Tangerine' more than the other two of these drinks I reviewed previously: it tastes probably the least sweet of all three, but still a little too sweet-carbonated for me.  It advertises 'no sugar added' and '100% juice carbonated' and 'no preservatives', so I was expecting some sweet ~ this drink tastes like carbonated, watered-down orange juice, but it's actually a pretty good flavor, and packs 140 calories, 34g sugar and 36g carbs in a 'no sugar added'-'no corn syrup'- 'no preservatives'-'no artificial colors'-'gluten free' drink!  I would expect that from a juice like apple or cranberry, but I would also expect it to TASTE a bit more natural, and this one, like I said above, tastes like carbonated orange juice with tangerine ~ it's nice tasting, but too much in the way of calories & such for me to drink this very often.<br /><br />It was certainly good, but for the tastebuds of someone who WAS a lifelong soda drinker (diet soda for the past 12 years), and gave up soda a year ago(I very occasionally drink a carbonated beverage now) this is not the drink for me.  I mostly drink water, milk, iced tea, hot tea & coffee now, and this sweet tasting, sugary tasting beverage, had way too much carbonation & flavoring for me!  The orange tangerine flavors were nice but still TASTED fake, which is weird for a drink that touts things like '100% juice' and a label that says 'natural flavors'...I would recommend this product only to those who like somewhat sweet, fruitie carbonated beverages...enjoy!"
,,,,,"It's OK, not the best, not the worst","First, I wish I had gotten two can samples of this product so I could try one with some bourbon. I find almost everything mixes with bourbon except tomato juice.<br /><br />OK. What I liked: nice fruit flavor. Strong but not overpowering. The carbonation was OK. Not flat, which was nice. Did not tickle my nose as champagne does.<br /><br />I did not care for the ""can"" taste. I felt there was a slight metallic aftertaste. Really, that was the only thing I didn't like. This product would probably taste better in glass rather than aluminum. Maybe I am overly picky...<br /><br />Overall, not sure I liked it enough to order it again."
,,,,,Good but nothing special,"I think I liked a similar drink but this one is just there. It's bubbly. It's sort of orange flavored. It has a sharpness but there's nothing about it that excites me. It's a good old fashioned carbonated beverage and if it's inexpensive buy it. If it's significantly more expensive than most drinks, leave it. Buy coke instead."
,,,,,not bad but not enough zing,"This is a beverage that is different from the other beverages out there.  It starts with a nice citrus zing but then finishes with a little sweet.  I was hoping for the zing to continue or get more full but it died.<br /><br />The overall taste is not as sweet as an orange soda and not as citrus as an Izze or similar citrus beverage.<br /><br />Overall, this is in between and as such is not going to be my pick as I will usually want one or the other.<br /><br />Not bad, but not what I want."
,,,,,How I miss the taste of sugar,"It seems that soda wasn't as good as when I was a kid, and people have pointed out that it might be the high fructose corn syrup that is making the taste more dull.  Well, this orange soda is made with real sugar, as well as a few extra healthy things, and the taste is much, much better than the regular orange sodas you might find otherwise.<br /><br />The price is about in line with what you'll find in a soda can and the taste is great.  Why would you drink the HFCS mentioned earlier that is just horrible for your body when you have this option?  I highly recommend it, I thought it was quite fabulous."
,,,,,Really Not Too Bad,I usually drink my soda room temperature but with this one I really needed it to be cold.  The taste is okay but takes a bit getting used to the tangerine in orange soda.  There was not as much carbonation which is fantastic as far as I'm concered and it wasn't exceedingly sweet.  I would most certainly consider getting this again as I don't think it's all that bad.  It's nice to have a bit of change from the usual orange soda flavor.
,,,,,It's Okay,"SWITCH isn't a bad product, but it's not great either. I like the fact that it's all natural sparkling juice, and the can design is pleasant to look at.<br /><br />The orange tangerine isn't bad; this flavor isn't as syrupy as some of Switch's others.  However, at 140 calories per can, this beverage has 50% more calories per ounce than the average soda. Too many for me."
,,,,,Great Taste - Refreshing with or without Ice,"I tried Switch Orange Tangerine drink.  Excellent flavor and not so sweet as to make you feel you are getting a ton of sugar.  It has no added sugar and no corn sweetners, so, it is more natural than any other orange soda type drink.  More like a sparkling juice drink.  I have been a fan of orange juice and soda type drinks when as a kid I would mix OJ and Orange Soda.  Yet the natural taste of this drink is refreshing.  I tried it both with and without ice and although the iced version is more refreshing, if you get a very cold can of this drink it tasted very satisfying and did not leave you with an after taste or with the sugar blues.<br /><br />Caution, it has 34 grams of sugar, and although natural, you should check with a doc if you have sugar problems.  34 grams is equivalent to 5 or more teaspoons of sugar.  At least, if you like sparkling fruit drinks, check this one out.  I will next try it with added sparkling water to it.  Enjoy."
,,,,,Excellant!,"Switch has been the first ""soda alternative"" that I've LOVED! It's got a delightful fresh fruit flavor, refreshing bubbles, and no aftertaste. It is sweet and juicy tasting, reminds me a little of Orange Crush. The tangerine flavor adds just the right note to peak your interest and overcome becoming just another orange drink. However, the price point of just at $1 a can prevents me from keeping it stocked in our home. Still, I would recommend it for an occasional treat."
,,,,,"Not bad, not great","It's not bad. Good ingredients for a change so that's a plus. Taste is okay but not great. I would drink it if offered, but doubt I'd buy it."
,,,,,A fine citrus beverage from The Switch,"The Switch Orange Tangerine is a nice beverage that is lightly carbonated and is made with real fruit juice.  Unlike most sodas, The Switch products are made with real ingredients (none of the High fructose corn Syrup) and it tastes great.  The cans come in a convenient 8.5 ounce can and they're great for lunch or an mid afternoon treat,  If you want a light beverage that's made with the ""good stuff"" then you'll want to grab a can of The Switch.  Do yourself a favor throw out the HFCS sodas and make ""The Switch""."
,,,,,Great Taste but not New Taste,"The Switch in Orange Tangerine has perfect serving size to keep the sugar in-take at its minimum and naturally. The carbonated sensation adding extra awakening sparks to the taste buds!<br /><br />That was my wife's first impression.<br /><br />I like the ""fruit soda"" idea.  It maybe a better alternative soda if it is indeed made of natural orange, but it taste likes other carbonated orange flavored soda on the market.  The only benefit you are getting and not from the regular soda is it contains daily recommended 100% vitamin C. If the price is right, doesn't hurt to try."
,,,,,Not bad..,"I've now tried several of the Switch drinks. They're not bad, for a carbonated juice drink, especially. This, actually, was one of the better flavors I've tried. It's got a nice orange juice type flavor that I enjoyed. Ultimately, these drinks remind me of Apple Beer, which is essentially carbonated apple juice. I love that drink, and think Switch could try an apple version of their product. I'm sure I'd love it as well...<br /><br />That being said, give it a try. It will quench your thirst, and I'm sure it'll do well in the marketplace. It fills a void where very few drink manufacturers have entered."
,,,,,Naturally Delicious,"I don't know if it has changed since then, but when I lived in Australia 14 years ago, one thing that stood out to me was how real drinks tasted compared to the artificial flavors typical of America.  Switch brought me back to those days.  It starts out tangy and the taste turns sweeter in my mouth.  If they knocked 50 calories off, I would definitely purchase this regularly."
,,,,,Pricey yet surprisingly refreshing!,"I sampled this product with some reservations. Carbonated fruit juice? My wife said that it would probably be something like Orangina, but since I'm not particularly fond of Orangina that didn't help me much. I then remembered that I had no problem drinking sparkling grape juice so this might not be so bad after all. I sampled this product cold, as warm fruit juice and warm soda are both bad ideas no matter what the flavor.<br /><br />I was very surprised to discover that I enjoyed this quite a bit. I expected there to be some acidity to it, given the orange and tangerine combination, and found none. I did find it surprisingly sweet considering that there's no added sugar. It was not, in fact, entirely unlike your garden variety orange soda with a smoother finish. There was a slight and very brief metallic aftertaste which I first assumed was from drinking it right from the can, but after a second taste from a drinking glass the aftertaste remained. Still, it's not enough to put me off from drinking it.<br /><br />The one thing that did put me off was the price. I'll admit that I'm something of a ""cheap drinker"" - I have a hard time, for example, going to the grocery store and buying a half gallon of lemonade for $2.50 when I can buy a $2 bottle of lemon juice and a $2.50 bag of sugar and make two gallons of lemonade and still have three pounds of sugar left over. I *always* do the math and price out what I'm drinking. (Do you have ANY idea how much money Coke makes off those 20 oz bottles?!?) So for this product, $23 for a 24-pack comes out to 96 per 8.3 ounce can, or about 12 per ounce. A half gallon of Tropicana orange-tangerine juice at the local supermarket is $3.80, or about 6 per ounce. I happen to have a carbonator and chargers are about 40 cents apiece, and it would take 2-3 chargers to do the entire half-gallon, so all said and done it would cost me about 8 per ounce to make my own carbonated orange-tangerine drink, so it's about 2/3 the cost to make it myself. (No, I didn't factor in the cost of the carbonator itself so that could be considered loading the dice.)<br /><br />So I guess the bottom line here is, if you're really big on the whole carbonated orange-tangerine thing then you can either buy this product and not be disappointed, or you can make a very close approximation of it yourself for about 65% of the cost (assuming you have a carbonator). Or, you can buy a two liter bottle of house-brand orange soda for a buck at your local supermarket and get much the same experience while saving about $22 in the process."
,,,,,Delicious!  And no aftertaste!,"I always liked Orange Crush when I was a kid.  Sure, it was just sugar water with some flavoring, but it was really good flavoring...except it had a chemical whang and an aftertaste that you just had to accept.<br /><br />Well, no more.  Switch Orange Tangerine drink is NOT sugar water.  It's 100% juice, the good stuff, and it's lightly carbonated, not overcarbonated like those sugary soft drinks either.  And no chemical whang!  And no aftertaste!<br /><br />Vitamin C and no added sugar?  I'll take that.  Of course there's sugar content, but it's just the natural sugar that comes in the juice.  Why didn't people think of this stuff when I was a kid?"
,,,,,"Not Bad, but Not Great","When I saw the Switch Orange Tangerine was available, I knew I had to try it.  I liked the Kiwi Strawberry quite well (better than some other reviewers did, it seems), so I was sure I would enjoy this one just as much.<br /><br />The initial taste of this Orange Tangerine carbonated juice is rather tart, and the carbonation just seems to make it more tart.  The aftertaste is rather pleasant, so if the aftertaste is what you're looking for in a drink, this is the drink for you.  My wife thought it tasted a bit like champagne, if that's any indication of what to expect from this drink.<br /><br />The flavor is different, and not at all what I expected.  Not very refreshing at all.  I would buy the Kiwi Berry drink, but I think I'll take a pass on the Orange Tangerine in the future."
,,,,,A Uniquely Tasty Beverage,"Switch is a 100% natural carbonated fruit juice beverage. I like the way it tastes.  It's very sweet and a little tangy.  The ingredients are as follows: 100% juice from apple, grape, tangerine, orange and acerola, gum acacia, natural flavors and colors, ascorbic acid (vitamin C), soy.<br /><br />An 8.3 oz can has 140 calories, 36 grams of carbs,  100% daily requirement of vitamin C and not much else."
,,,,,"Decent, but tastes a little ""odd""","The mixture of juices they use to sweeten this give it a little bit of an odd taste and makes it too sweet.  It's not a straight orange/citrus flavor.  Not being an apple juice fan I wasn't fond of it.<br /><br />I gave it four stars b/c it is what it advertises - it's juice with sparkling water, unlike some other ""healthy"" sparkling beverages that are basically soda.<br /><br />For sparkling juice I prefer IZZE - it's a little less sweet."
,,,,,Refreshing and not too sweet,"This is a nice, refreshing carbonated drink. It has no added sugar, as advertised. But its name is a bit misleading. The ""Orange Tangerine"" also has some apple and grape juice added. The grape is not a great addition to the blend, so I wasn't thrilled with the flavor."
,,,,,Now that's orange,"This was the most potent orange drink I have ever had. It might be ""100% juice,"" but this drink has some kick.<br /><br />There are no artificial sweeteners in this drink, but it is so highly concentrated that it was overwhelmingly sweet and even the tang of the carbonation couldn't cute into the sugary flavor.<br /><br />It was WAY too strong for me and I thought it had kind of an odd aftertaste, but if you like carbonation and have a powerful craving for orange-tangerine, this is the drink for you."
,,,,,Sweet and Carbonated Like Energy Drinks but Without the Sugar,"Energy Drinks are very popular these days.  Most, if not all, are loaded with sugar, various overloads of vitamins, and varying ""energy blends.""  A few energy drinks have tried adding pure juice, but have only come up with 50% at most.<br /><br />If your not a young'un and can't handle that blast of sugar and crash that follows, then Switch is a better alternative.  Switch is 100% juice, ZERO sugar, and lots of vitamin C.<br /><br />Switch is carbonated, so with the Orange Tangerine flavor, picture your morning juice with a little soda fizzle.  The taste is sweet, but not sugary.  Although the size of the can probably relates to the recommended serving, most people probably don't have this little juice in one sitting.<br /><br />Soda fizzle meets juice benefits.  It's a no brainer.  How about some more flavors?"
,,,,,Pretty good,"The Switch tries to blur the line between soda and juice, and I'd say that the experiment is successful. It's sweet and rich like soda, but it is, as the label says, 100% juice, and therefore of vastly more nutritional value. I guess it all comes down to taste, and it's more similar to soda than juice here, maybe like a more toned-down Sunkist soda. As I said, I liked it, and I'd probably pick it up again, though it hasn't displaced Squirt as my favorite."
,,,,,Very Good!,"I have tasted several of the other flavors of this drink, Switch, but I have to say that this one tops them all.  Perhaps it is because I like orange soda, and this drink seems to have all the elements of what I like in the soda without all the harmful ones. There is no sugar added, no preservatives, no artificial colors and it is gluten free.  This is especially great for someone with allergies, or those who are on restricted diets.  Add to that that it is 100% juice and tastes great and you have a winner.  I liked this product and plan to seek it out at my local store."
,,,,,Too much mint,"I was looking forward to this tea, but unfortunately the mint overpowers the hibiscus and essentially makes this just another kind of mint tea.  I prefer the hibiscus tart be the star of the show in a hibiscus-based tea (aka ""herbal infusion"") and in my opinion, mint and ""tropical"" don't mix and now know going forward to pay more attention to the ingredients.  Still worth 3 stars because it can be a refreshing tea on a hot day, but just not a great tropical/hibiscus tea."
,,,,,My favorite!,"Hands down my all time favorite iced tea. I typically prefer loose tea, but the taste of this tea is wonderful!  The pouches are so easy to use and make clean up a breeze."
,,,,,I love this tea and so do all my friends,"This tea is to die for.  It hits the spot.  Easy to make ice tea.  All of my friends love it as well.  I am delighted to serve it.  I look forward to drinking it, it is my new favorite drink!"
,,,,,great and easy way to buy,"We go through a lot of dressing and my husband HAS to have this brand only, so I saw this and said GREAT!"
,,,,,Contains MSG!,"I like the taste of this dressing, but realized that it contains the additive mono sodium gluconate. This chemical gives me migraines, which is very difficult to tolerate. I am sorry to say that I will no longer purchase this dressing unless they remove this flavor enhancer."
,,,,,Cups work great,"The cups to make my own coffee K-cups work fine.  If there had been free shipping it would have been better, but I will order again and look for a way to not pay 1/2 the price of the product just for shipping."
,,,,,Great,Much better than having to fight removing coffee grinds from a metal basket. I love being able to just toss grinds into the trash.
,,,,,DisposaKups,"I'm very pleased with the DisposaKups.  They were part of a Christmas gift for my husband and he is busily filling the DisposaKups with his favorite Starbucks coffee.  Needless to say, these will part of the Keurig experience for him and we plan to purchase more once he's used the two boxes I ordered.  I was especially pleased that the order arrived in time for Christmas since I was late in finding them. We will definitely use this company again!"
,,,,,marvelous product,"These wonderful cups, filters, lids saved me from returning my new single cup coffee maker.  Tried many K-cup brands and blends and didn't care for any of them.  Nor did I like my own coffee option that came with the coffee maker.  The disposa-kups are just what I needed to get a good cup of my own coffee from my new coffee maker.  Would recommend and will order again.  Received in 3 days during Christmas rush!"
,,,,,Great substitute!,These little cups are a perfect compliment to our k-cup varieties!  We use them for our coffees and loose teas.  I was not disappointed and they are much easier to use than the reuseable cups sold by Keurig....
,,,,,DisposaKups,Work well and made solidly.  For whatever reason the Keurig takes longer to complete the brewing cycle when using these cups and the liquid bleeds through the filter on the outside of the cup making a small mess.  They do the job as intended but could use a different type of filter to make the experience less messy.
,,,,,Save money,"I am giving this as a gift to go along with a single coffee brewer.  Though ratings say there are problems, saving money on easy to purchase coffee is better.  We live in the sticks in Wisconsin."
,,,,,Good Buy,This was a great buy for the money and a hard product to find.  I was pleased when I received it doing it this way I cut my coffee costs down by 2/3rd even after you consider the price of the product I am very happy
,,,,,disposakups,"The cup/filter/lid combination that allows for use of ones own coffee in the Kuerig brewer is a great idea. The quality of the product is good, and the use is simple. Now if they could just get the price down! Unfortunately, we use and love 8-O'Clock bean coffee which is among the cheapest because we buy it in bulk and grind our own beans. If we could save costs by buying disposakups in quantities of 250 or so, that would be great!"
,,,,,"Good idea, but they leak","Disposakups....great idea, because K-kups are expensive and aren't necessarily available in your favorite coffee.<br /><br />Disposakups fit well into the Keurig coffee maker, the lid snaps on firmly to the disposakup after you fill it with your favorite coffee or tea.  However, the problem comes with the filter which wicks the hot coffee under pressure out of the disposakup from under the lid.<br /><br />I tried several of these disposakups. After the first few leaked I thought maybe I was not snapping the lid on tight enough, so I made up some more disposakups and made sure the lids were on REALLY tight, no gaps! They still leaked about 5 or 6 drops from each disposakup, which then drips outside the k-kup holder chamber...and outside the catch area.  I needed to clean up around the coffee maker after use.<br /><br />I give this item 3 stars because they do work, and are a great idea, but the design of the filter protruding from around the cap causes the leaking.  If you don't mind a bit of cleanup after each use....you'll appreciate these.<br /><br />I'll use the rest of the box, and continue cleaning up after each use, but I won't buy more.<br /><br />The seller offered a refund, but it would cost me almost as much to send them back as I would receive as a refund."
,,,,,worth the wait,These were on backorder for a long time but well worth the wait. I can finally use the coffee beans I've had for awhile and have a great cup of coffee with no grounds. I totally love the product and will definately order more in the future. Would like to see them in 100 count.
,,,,,disposakup,work OK. main problem they leak out the top a bit as well as inside the machine.  is it worth the extra work?  it is if you want to pay a fraction of the cos of a k-cup.  plus you can use any coffee you desire.
,,,,,Easy to use coffee holder,These coffee holders are much easier to use than the others I have used and make life a little easier!
,,,,,k-cups,Nice product.  Good company.  Only complaint is that it took over a month for them to ship it after I ordered and they never let me know what was going on.
,,,,,MONEY SAVER,"I just received my order, and happy with the ability of using some gifted coffees, I never used before, as I like my one cup at a time.  Only problem I have found is that the caps are sometimes difficult to get set properly.  I made up several cups with different coffees and store them with the rest of my supply.  I'll be back for more, and will tell my Keurig friends."
,,,,,"Great attempt, but a failed product.","These seemed like a great idea. I would be able to load up 50 k-cups with any type of coffee I chose, and still maintain the speed of using the store bought cups in my rush to get ready every morning. After waiting a month for this product to reach me (20 days before they even shipped it!) I finally found it on my doorstep.<br /><br />Upon opening the box my hopes lifted even higher; these are solid little cups of a much higher quality than I expected. I filled one and snapped the lid down. I ensured it was sealed all the way around, placed it in my Kuerig, and hit the brew button. At first it seemed to be working splendidly then coffee began pouring out of places it isn't supposed to. By the time it was over I had quite a mess to clean up. Upon opening the Kuerig I found the DisposaKup completely in tact and the lid still secured properly. However the bit of overhanging filter was soaked, dripping, and HOT! I had discovered the source of the leak. I have tried again several times with the same reoccurring problem. I guess I should have bought the EcoBrew cup after all.<br /><br />If you like the appearance of convenience, and the reality of spending more time cleaning up a mess this is the product for you.<br /><br />(I went ahead and gave it two stars because I like the idea of the product so much.)"
,,,,,Awesome,"I have been using the DisposaKups for about 2 weeks.  They are easy to put together and fill.  Caps fit snug.  I sometimes get overfill, but my Cuisinart does that with regular K-Cups.  I put regular coffee in it, Maxwell House, Community Coffee, sometimes I grind my own.  Coffee always taste just like in drip coffee maker.  Great replacement for K-Cups cause they have literally doubled in price in just 6 months."
,,,,,Great alternative to the single cups.,These worked great for us.  We are able to reuse the plastic parts a couple of times before discarding them.  We love being able to use our favorite coffee.
,,,,,convenient & easy,The DisposaKups are so easy and convenient to use.  They are a great substitute when I run out of K-Cups and don't want to run to the store to buy a replacement supply and pay higher in-store prices.
,,,,,good stuff,"shipped in great shape.  I gave these to my son, he is the one who uses reg coffee and he really likes these disposable k-cups.  I guess I will still have to send him coffee beans every mo."
,,,,,Cool product,"I love coffee that I buy locally and this product allows me to use it in my Keurig brewer.  Getting the lid on is a little challenging, but the end result is worth it.  This is the coolest find of mine this year!!"
,,,,,"Good concept, but....","Nice idea...to create self-filling cups for those who own Keurig Brewers but want to use their own bagged coffee, or those who do not want to incur the high cost of purchasing pre-made brewing cups.  The idea is, one takes a plastic cup, puts in the pre-molded filter, adds one's own coffee grounds, closes the cup with the lid and then pops the cup into the brewer, disposing of it at the end.  However...the plastic on the cups is a bit flimsy, such that if one pushes too hard down on the lid, the entire cup collapses, accordion style...another drawback is that the lids do not fit snugly without careful maneuvering, so that it can take longer than one might expect to close the cups...these two problems defeating the purpose of ""fast"" which is basically the primary advantage of Keurig brewers in the first place.  Another advantage of the brewer is the lack of a mess, which these cups also do not address well....there is always coffee left to either drip down or on top of the lid following brewing which requires cleanup of the cup holder...granted it is not major clean-up, but nevertheless...  And finally, the potential advantage of cost savings...the cups appear to be relatively inexpensive, but add in the cost of shipping and handling, which is some $6 on top of the featured price (about 50% more), and the per cup price increases...try purchasing multiple packages to reduce shipping cost...no go, the company just doubles the cost of shipping one package; ergo, if you were to say order 100 cups, you would pay more than 30 dollars and a third would be shipping and handling.  In addition to the other problems with the design, it more or less defeats the purpose.  Large packages of the pre-made pods can be purchased for nearly the same per-pod cost.  Would not recommend these, until the company lowers shipping costs, improves design, or both.  You're better off just using the mesh filter pod that comes with your brewer, and simply rinsing it out...same time involved, less cost and lower environmental impact."
,,,,,cups and lids and filters oh my!,"I purchased the cups, lids and filters.  They work exactly how I expected them to work.  Perfectly!  The lids and cups can be used more than once.  The filters unfortunately cannot.  I am going to be looking in the future for cups that have the filters attached like in the regular prefilled k-kups.  Very good product though!"
,,,,,Great product,"I was very pleased with these disposable k-cups.  I read other peoples comments that the lids are hard to get on.  I found that true at first until I just used one finger and pressed them on in the center.  I heard a click and they were ready to go.  I will order a larger amount next time to save on shipping.  The hot chocolate K-cups prefilled are terrible, but these filled with your own chocolate mix are very good."
,,,,,Disposable K-Cups for Keurig Brewers,"Great product - brought it for a gift and will be buying some more for me.  User friendly product, easy to use and works with any kcup machine"
,,,,,Great to have on hand,These fill your own K-cups are great to have and use with a custom coffee that doesn't come in the K-cup variety.  They are disposable and you can fill several and have them ready.  I also drink a herbal tea that I buy in bulk and now I can make it with my Kuerig.  Would definitely buy again to have on hand.
,,,,,Great for using your own coffee!,"I recently went to Hawaii and bought tons of coffee. It was such a pain to use the My K-Cup attachment on the Keurig machine because I'd have to dump it out and wash it after every use. DisposaKups are a great alternative and work wonderfully with my machine! It's now super easy for me to use my own coffee! The only drawbacks I have found is that you really have to fill the filter all the way up to get good flavor. It leaks a little bit so the outside of the cup is a bit wet after using. Lastly, water moves through it a bit slower than normal K-cups so brewing a cup takes a bit longer than normal. I would still highly recommend this to anyone who wants to use their own coffee with their Keurig machine!"
,,,,,disposa kups for keurig coffee makers,I love the cups - I have reviewed this before and said the same thing.  Saving a lot of money using these kups.
,,,,,DisposaKups for Keurig,"This product is exactly as described.  I use my Keurig Brewer daily and now I am able to use my choice of coffee.  They are simple to use and work great.  The delivery from LiquiBuy, LLC on Amazon was prompt and packaged perfectly."
,,,,,Lids too tight,"The first shipment I received of this item was great. Lids fit easily. This last shipment, either the lids are slightly larger or the cups are smaller. The lids are extremely hard to get on. If I press too hard the cup starts to buckle. I've actually started to use a pair of pliers to get the lids on!"
,,,,,convenient,This is the second time I've ordered this product and I plan to order these often.  They work perfectly and I am able to use my favorite speciality coffees especially when I run out of the prefilled K-cups sold at retail stores.
,,,,,Perfect! Works as expected,"This product worked exactly as advertised. I filled several cups in advance with my own coffee and was able to use them in my machine just like a K-Cup. Prior to purchasing, I read a review stating that the lid came off when the user was attempting to remove it from the machine. This was not the case for me. The lid was secure and it functioned just like the more expensive prefilled K-Cup. I will order these DisposaKups regularly."
,,,,,Big Money Saver!,"These cups are so easy to use and saves so much money compared to the store bought Kups.  You can use whatever coffee you want and have as many flavors as you want.  We are on our 9th box of these and will continue to use them.<br /><br />The seller is great in regards to contact and shipping.  The last shipment arrived just a couple of days after we bought them. Long before the ""due date"" listed when the order was placed."
,,,,,Another great item for Keurig users,"I  was so happy to see that someone realized that the Kcup is a product in a lot of homes.  These disposable Kcups make using ground coffee a simple clean and easy way to enjoy a favorite coffee, tea or hot chocolate beverage easy  I work as a merchandiser and am always searching to find the new products and making sure that I can reccomend the products to the customers and stores that I service"
,,,,,Good buy,"These DisposaKups are ""the cats meow"" they serve the purpose thy were intended for very well and were delivered as promised on time and well packaged arrived in good condition I would recommend to all friends."
,,,,,These Work,"I have the regular my K cup accessory that comes with the Keurig, but you have to insert the special holder and fill the filter each time, then wash them both out.  I like these because they are disposable.  And I can fill several at one time and have them ready in the refrigerator when I want them.  Very convenient."
,,,,,Great product! Great value!,"These cups work great! We have had a Keurig for about a year and use a refillable filter cup. Its so tedious to refill every time you want a cup of coffee. Especially at 4am before work! These cups are so easy to use and perfect for mornings when you just want a quick cup of coffee. The lids are a little tough to get on sometimes and they get stuck in the top of the machines occasionally, but still much less work than the filter cup we were using before. We get a basketful ready at the beginning of the week and they are ready to go each morning. It's GREAT! So much more affordable than the name brand cups. Great product, great value!"
,,,,,These work great!,"For those reviews that say the coffee wasn't strong enough or the cup leaked, they simply don't know what they're doing.  First of all, use the right kind of coffee.  The first time I used it, I put in a medium roast that wasn't ground very fine.  And yes, the coffee was weak.  So I switched to a VERY FINELY ground dark roast and it was perfect.  And yes, they will leak and leave grounds in your Keurig if you don't let some of the filter hang over the edge and seal it correctly.  I had no problem with sealing the cup...so far so good.  Makes as good a cup of coffee as the more expensive ready-made k-cups and have yet to find any grounds in my coffee or in the Keurig.  Really a good deal, plus I had them three days after ordering.  Very quick shipping."
,,,,,disposable k-cups,"What a pleasure it is to be able to use my own coffee, even make cups up to take to work with me!  These are easy, mess free alternatives to the apparatus I bought to use with my machine, there are no coffee grounds in my sink now!"
,,,,,DisposaKups,I received and have been using my DisposaKups for several days.  I highly recomend this product.  I fill up a dozen or so at a time and just pop them into the Coffee maker when I want a fresh cup of coffee.  The coffee comes out fresh and with no coffee grounds in the cup.  Who could ask for more?
,,,,,Just right!,"They are just the right size, the filter works fine and so does the lid.<br />They're easy to fill and store for future use.<br />Since its ""all-in-one"" and disposable like the pre-filled Keurig cups, its a good way to enjoy my favorite brand of coffee."
,,,,,Review of DisposaKups,"Got product on time - early in fact,  Great Experience!  I would order from them again!  Very good place to buy these from."
,,,,,Love the cups,Easy to use and saves money. Gives you control on the strength of your coffee. I will purchase them again.
,,,,,K-Cups on the custom side!,"Love the product! I can now custom blend my personal favorite coffee blends, and get them CHEAPER than buying pre-fab K-cups!"
,,,,,Disposable k cups,This product works exactly as  it is advertised.  No more rinsing wire baskets.  The coffe is as good as the already filled k cups that you buy in the store.  It's nice to just throw the whole thing in the trash when done and not clog the sink.  Couldn't be happier as it gives me unlimited choices for coffee and  it saves money too!  Amazon is great!
,,,,,Awsome product for K-cup lover,"The seller was prompt to ship, I receive the disposable K-cup in two days. When I receive them, I try one of the disposable K-cup on Keig, the ease of use and the quality of the cup it made and the saving from pre-fill K-cup coffee brands is worth the price."
,,,,,I LOVE THESE,I love these disposable K-Cups as I prefer to use my own brand(s).  These accomplish the job perfectly and so easy to use.  Thankyou for this product.  Seller was prompt in shipping.  Good packaging.  I will purchase again.  A++++
,,,,,Over-priced product; so-so results.,"I decided to give these a try.  The lids are VERY difficult to put on and I often ended up bending the cup while trying to affix the lid.  They do not seal perfectly and I often found unexpected puddles, but they do the job.  Since I have a Keurig permanant filter I thought of just buying the paper filters to save on cleanup.  For almost $11 from this vendor, you can get 50 (fifty) paper filters.....I would just assume use paper towels.  That works out to be just under 25 cents for a small piece of paper....DisposaKups, please re-evaluate your pricing!"
,,,,,Awesome Idea!!!,"I am a creature of habit, and when I purchased my Keurig, I tasted alot of the coffee brands and flavors made for my appliance.  However, I never found one that I said ""this could replace the coffee I am currently using"".  So when I discovered the disposable K-cups I was delighted.  The problem now was I did not purchase enough.  So now I am waiting on my second delivery.  Great service."
,,,,,"DisposaKups - great product, wide open choices!","Over a year ago I purchased a Breville K-Cups brewer and immediately found the the available selection and choices to exceed what I had expected. I loved using it and brewing what I wanted, 1 cup at a time. I found that I was paying about 40cents/cup and that was also great.<br />Now the prices have soared to nearly or over $1/cup and that has made me slow down my purchase rate and my enjoyment of my single cup brewer.<br /><br />Enter the DisposaKups and suddenly the price is reasonable again and I can grind my own or purchase Ekobrew and use their coffees. These are so simple, convenient and easy that I really enjoy that my world of coffee is wide open again.<br /><br />Thanks for such a great product!<br /><br />Ted"
,,,,,DisposaKups work great!,I ordered the DisposaKups because I have several coffees in bags that I had left over and wanted to use.  The cups work great.  I quickly figured out that the filter must be pushed down in order for the lid to fit. Easy to load and easy to dispose.
,,,,,Good Start but Could Be Better.,These cups work for the most part except for the fact that all most all of them leak out the top of the cap. All seem to wick some leakage through the paper filter at the cap and cup joint and approximately 10-15% overflow and leak around the cup and down the sides providing some grounds with the coffee.
,,,,,Too bulky for cuisinart?,"Caused my cuisinart k-cup brewer to leak every time I used it.  Great idea, just needs some adjustments so that the coffee maker works properly with it."
,,,,,"work fine, make great coffee, but w/o true saving","These work just fine after spooning ground coffee into a series of these cups (do it over a plate with ground coffee in a small bowl). Doing so, you get just the fine coffee you want and are not trapped by the standard selections. But there's no saving money: $14/lb coffee works out to 25 cents per cup plus the 25 cents per DisposaKup gives 50 cents per cup, about the price of regular k-cups. Darn! Hoped I'd save money but I do get my choice."
,,,,,Excellent product,I have tried another brand of one cup coffee making.  These made the job easy and no mess.  The other method had a plastic holder and lid and a paper basket.  You disposed of the inserted paper basket only.  The plastic would be very warm to the touch at the very least.  Then you had to rinse the plastic holder and top for any grinds that might have escaped.
,,,,,KCup convenience but less costly,This product saves me money since I can use a regular brand that i like in these kcups and I can still have the kcup convenience of making one drink at a time without using nasty instant coffee.  Great product!
,,,,,Outstanding Product,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004K30HO2"">DisposaKups - Disposable K-Cups for Keurig Brewers - 50 Cups, Lids, Filters - 100% Disposable</a><br /><br />I bought these because I occasionally run out of my favorite blend and like the convienience of these over the permanet type filters. I also prefer Decaf Black UNSWEETENED tea for Iced Tea that is unavailable in K-cups.  These are great for both and I am reordering to keep onhand.  Couldn't be happier!"
,,,,,Disposakups are great,"Fast service and shipping.  These little k cups are great as you can use any kind of coffee or tea that you like, at a much reduced price over regular k-cups.  Easy to use no mess, what's not to like.  If you have coffee maker that uses k-cups you have to try these, it puts you back in control of drinking the kind of coffee you like."
,,,,,good alternative,I really enjoy this disposable. The only thing that would make it better would be for the cups and lids to be made out of a more eco friendly material. Coffee tastes great.
,,,,,DisposaKups,"When I used the k-cup filter that came w/keurig, I didn't like the taste of any coffee I used so I stopped using it altogether.  However, when I saw DisposaKups on Amazon, I had my doubts but took a chance...They worked great.  Plan to keep them in stock."
,,,,,EXACTLY what I've been looking for to brew bagged coffee!,"I am so grateful that DisposKups exist--and are now in use in my home!<br /><br />No other type of device for brewing bagged coffee in my Keurig (k-cup)or any other way to recycle K-cups has worked well for me. The standard device made by Keurig is so difficult to clean each time, that I just choose to never use it.<br /><br />DisposaKups are the perfect item for brewing my favorite coffees that are not available in K-cup form.  The pieces fit together perfectly, and with a ""snap"" -- I'm able to brew a cup of coffee and still have the disposable feature of regular k-cups (and no clean up!) Plus, you can assemble however many custom K-cups ahead of time with disposaKups, so they are very helpful to have for holiday gatherings and parties.<br /><br />Thank you thank you!  I will be purchasing a big supply soon, so I will be well-stocked for the holidays!"
,,,,,excellent product,"I love these DisposaKups. They allow me to use some of my favorite canned or fresh bean coffee in my Keurig coffee maker. There is no mess, easy as using the regular K kups, just throw away when you are done making your coffee. LOVE the convenience. I have just place a 2nd order."
,,,,,"Quick, easy and cheap K-Cups","The DisposaKups work as advertised.  They are easy to use, just put your favorite coffee in the cup, pop the cap on and brew.  This allows me to save quite a bit of money while using my favorite coffee.  I filled about 25 of them at one time so there is always one standing by when I am desperate for a cup.  There is no need to wash out a filter, just toss it in the trash like the store bought K-cups.  They also make a good backup system if you run out of the store bought k-kups.<br />I would be interested to know if the company uses, or plans to use, recycled plastic or plastic alternatives in the manufacturing of these."
,,,,,Waiting for Starbucks k-cups,Great product to tide me over with my supply of Starbucks til they start making k-cups.  Easy to assembl and use with my own ground coffee.
,,,,,Great product,"Great product, enables you to use your own coffee in your single brew maker. And I can make up several at a time!!!"
,,,,,I like the DisposaKups,"I like the DisposaKups.  If I'm fixing more than one cup, it's quicker to use the DisposaKups than it is to clean out the refillable holder, which came with my machine."
,,,,,Disposable K-Cups for Keurig Brewers,"I was very excited to see a product such as this being offered on line, as I loved the coffee I was drinking before I got a Keurig.  (My previous coffee is not offered in a K-cup version.)  Very promptly I placed an order and couldn't wait for it to arrive. I placed my fresh beans into my grinder and ground them a little courser than I would have if I was using my Bunn coffee pot.  I then proceeded to place the filter into the disposable K-cup, add my freshly ground beans and placed the cap on tightly.  Great!! Ready to brew my first cup of my favorite coffee.  The whole procedure worked well until the cycle was almost finished and then it happened.  Scalding hot water started squirting out of my Keurig machine from all sides.  I was trying to move my cup to catch the water, but it was coming out too fast and very hot.  I was disappointed with the performance of this product.  The coffee was good, although not a full cup and I had a mess to clean. I have tried grinding the beans finer and courser, also tried to fill the cups at different levels, but the results are still the same.  I will continue experimenting with the disposable K-cups and if I find the right combination, I will let you know."
,,,,,I love DisposaKups!,"This product works just as described!  You simply place a filter in the disposable cup, add your own coffee, snap on the lid, and make the cup of coffee as you would with a regular K Cup.  The coffee is just as good as any prepackaged K Cups, and you can use the brand of your choice at a fraction of the cost (and no washing out those pesky mesh reusable filters!) As some other reviewers have noted, sometimes the cup gets stuck on the handle that raises as you are trying to remove the used cup.  But you simply pull it out and I've never had a lid fall of, so there is still no mess.  I will definitely continue to use this product!"
,,,,,Makes Keurig more convenient,I was getting tired from washing out the little refillable baskets to make a second cup. The solutions are to get multiple baskets or the disposable type. The filtering is a little better and the coffee has fewer solids. It is easy to use and does what it says.
,,,,,Great Disposable K-cups,"Tried the  disposable k-cups and they work great, just as good as keurig k-cups. Put my own mid grind coffee in cups and they worked without problems. They couldn't be any easier to use. Will continue to use them."
,,,,,Almost Perfect,"Product is, as advertised, a good way to utilize your own coffee blends.  It is easy to fill and prepare for use, however, it sometime leaks at the end of the brewing process."
,,,,,Buy These!,"Like the DisposaKup lids, the DisposaKup set is just as good if not better. If you tossed your previous Keurig Kcups, this set will take care of you. I will definitely be purchasing them again."
,,,,,Excellent  Service!!!,I love DisposaKups and I'm so glad that Liquibuy provides them to consumers.<br />DisposaKups are fantastic and the vendor does a very good job communicating with its customers.
,,,,,Disposable K-cup filters,"I have lots of ground coffee and since having my Keurig have not been able to use it.  But, with the disposable cups, I can use up all my ground coffee and get the tastes I want.  I would buy again; convenient.  (Be sure you snap the lid on securely because it is a tight fit.)"
,,,,,Nothing beats throw-away,My wife just loves these cups.  First off I have to say they arrived a month earlier than stated.  Excellent!  The convenience of being able to use your own coffee and throw away the little cups afterwards is fantastic.  No clean-up.  Excellent.
,,,,,Very good alternative to premade,"I have ordered three boxes of these so far.  They work very well.  Shipping was fast.  Their claim to fame is the ability to pre-fill these little cups and store them for later.  I just store them in the freezer.  The problem with most refillable/disposable filter k-cups, is that they are prepared on a per-cup basis.  To me this defeats the whole usefulness of the k-cup system.  Instead with these, I can sit at the table, and quickly throw together all 50 and store them.  Convienience is maintained and the cost effectiveness goes up as these are so much cheaper than buying the prepared ones."
,,,,,Not bad but alittle pricey,It is difficult to judge the amount and grind of coffee to put in the K-cups. If it is too fine a grind or is too packed full it only give you a half of a cup.
,,,,,Great Concept- Iffy Execution,"I recently purchased DisposaKups from this seller! Not only did I receive great customer service and fast shipping, but my product came packaged perfectly. I absolutely love the idea of the DisposaKups. However, after using a few, they just don't live up to my expectations. The lid often gets stuck in the keurig when its done brewing, sometimes the holes don't poke properly, and every time i am left with water spewing out in all directions while it brews. Definitely not a replacement for MyK or Solofill."
,,,,,Not what I hoped for...,"I purchased this product for a couple of reasons.  First, with the cost of k-cups, this offered a lower price option.  Second, this allows me to used the coffee of my choice (decaf, organic, water-processed).<br /><br />The first couple of times I used these, the coffee was very weak.  I opened a regular k-cup that I had to see if there was a difference in grind size from what I was using; there was not.  Then I poured the contents of the k-cup into my disposable k-cup and it would not fit.  Apparently, the disposable cups hold less coffee, which could account for the weakness.  I also noticed that the disposable cups leak around the rim, and I often get grounds in my cup.<br /><br />I started packing as much coffee as I could into the cups, to where I could barely get the top on.  This made a much better cup of coffee.  However, they still leaked, there were still grounds in my coffee, and it make my Keurig run MUCH slower.  Not to mention the cleanup...<br /><br />My business uses a Keurig so that all of us can brew the coffee of our choice, and we also have a couple of tea and hot chocolate drinkers.  Everytime I use the disposable cups, I have to wipe down the machine, drip tray & my cup.  I also have to clean out the interior of the cup recepticle so that the next person doesn't have to put up with my leftovers.  All in all, these were a nice idea, but the amount of work they require makes paying a little exta for the convenience of regular k-cups more attractive.  I will probably use up what I have and then go back to the regular k-cups or find a more landfill friendly solution."
,,,,,Easy to Use!,"I found these cups to be easy to use, and a lovely way to make pods of your own favorite coffee."
,,,,,Great way to make your own,Thank God they finially made them I can't always afford the buy the regular k-cups. The only change I would make is to have peel and stick top for them. The peel and sticks could have your own name on them so you could share them with your friends. Ron
,,,,,Great & easy product,"We have the K-cup, however, these disposable K-cups are the best ever. I am always rushed in the morning and cleaning out the old K-cup to make another cup of coffee to put in the togo cup, is NOT what I want to do...<br /><br />I'm so grateful to have found this product!!!"
,,,,,Great product quick delivery,This is a great product and would highly recommend to all Keurig fans. You can make your own k cups at a fraction of the cost.
,,,,,coffee filters,this filters are perfect to use with the extra ground coffee I have.they are as good or better than the K-Cups.
,,,,,DisposaKups,I really liked the premise of the product so I ordered.  They are not easy to store and therefore assemble for use.  But this overcomes the usefulness of the product.
,,,,,Nice,Product arrived earlier than expected and was just what I expected - an easy and cheap way to make my own Keurig K-cups. Great for company. Everyone gets what they want without having to buy a whole box of K-cups. I just buy a few of the little one pot coffee packages and can make whatever someone wants. Awesome!
,,,,,love this product,"i love this product !  ive tried several different options,this one is the best. unlike most people, k cups are too strong for me. with this i can make it however i want, and my husband can use the k cups. most products ive tried just dont filter good enough,but this one does. i like being able to just throw it away when im done. its a little pricey,mostly shipping costs, but all in all ,worth it."
,,,,,Made my brewer worth the $$,"Not at all happy with the instant coffee taste of my cute little brewer , I began hunting for a solution . The DisposaKups were it !!  My own fresh ground coffee - packed in tight in the DisposaKup - makes a good cuppa joe . Easy to use and no mess . Love them .  Shipping was fast and they are a good value in my opinion . Thanks"
,,,,,"DisposaKups - Disposable K-Cups for Keurig Brewers - 50 Cups, Lids, Filters - 100% Disposable","DisposaKups - Disposable K-Cups for Keurig Brewers - 50 Cups, Lids, Filters - 100% Disposable are handy because you buy your own coffee that you like and just fill K-cups and then throw them out.  I pre-fill them so all I have to do is put them in the machine."
,,,,,pretty cool!,"These things work very well.  The only trouble I've had with them is if you leave one in the machine overnight, it sticks and is hard to get out.  Otherwise, a great product!!!"
,,,,,save your money.,THE LIDS DO NOT FIT. COFFEE RUNS OUT OF THE POD. A TOTAL WASTE OF MONEY. THERE ARE OTHER FILTERS ON THE MARKET THAT ARE MUCH BETTER.
,,,,,Liking things that make sense and work,"I will start by being kind, It is a good idea to save money with an item or concept like this. It makes good sense to use your own coffee beans and avoid the cost of the pre-filled commercial K-cups you buy at the store.<br /><br />Now, I received my DisposaKups over a month after ordering them and put them to use.  I was immediately disappointed, filters did not hold very much coffee, It was a struggle to get the lids to fit together with the filter and outer plastic cup.  The coffee was very weak.<br /><br />This product actually creates more waste in a landfill than the commercially made K-cups. The body and lids are plastic.  Normal K-cups do not have a plastic lid.  Notice they say 100% disposable....So put them in the trash. They are not recyclable = landfill.<br /><br />They are not convenient, they are a bit messy, a pain to put together and still expensive.  Not worth it! There are better alternatives out there that will save you money, make better coffee and not go into a landfill.<br /><br />Sorry, I wish I had better news, I think I will return these."
,,,,,do not waste your money!,"The product stinks and that's mildly stated.  The caps do not snap on easily and if you apply too much pressure the cup part caves in and you end up with ground coffee everywhere.  I threw the whole order into the trash and called it a day.  I will be using professionally produced K-cups (i.e, Dunkin Donuts, Starbucks, even Folgers) from this point on."
,,,,,These cups melted during the coffee brewing process.,"I was so excited to get these k cups and immediately filled 10, for future brewing, with my favorite coffee.  I tried one right away...  the coffee started running down the front of my Kreuig.  I thought I had filled the cup wrong and maybe not had the lid sealed well enough.... but when the coffee was done I opened the k-cup slot and found a melted wrinkled container.  I have subsequently tried more of the orrigional 10 that I filled, after carefully checking that they were properly put together, and all melted in the same way.  I have since thrown the rest away because I was tired of the mess they created!  Don't buy these... they do not stand up to hot water."
,,,,,K Cups are Reasonably Adequate,"For product to work properly (IMHO) you need coffee ground as fine as possible. Once filter has been inserted, plave carefully leveled measure of coffee in it. Manuever lid into place, then press down on center-STEADILY- w/ thumb.<br /><br />Plan to use no more than 6 Oz. of water for your cup.<br /><br />Removal of used cup from machine is occasional problem. (Jiggle it and it will generally loosen up.)"
,,,,,Do Not Buy,The Solo K-cup works perfectly instead of these.  I Totally agree with the Poor Performance review.  I also got coffee grounds in my cup everytime I used these (yes even with the filter). The cup is poorly designed. It clogged the system causing the water to back up producing a half cup of coffee or water spilling outside the top of the unit.
,,,,,DisposaKups,"FINALLY, a cheaper alternative to buying K-cups, & I can use all of the half-full bags of coffee in my cupboard from my pre-Keurig days! Works perfectly for both of my Keurig machines!"
,,,,,Disposable Kups,"The products lid stays attached to the needle on the Keurig, allowing coffee grounds to fall everywhere. Very messy. If this didn't happen, it would work well."
,,,,,terrible,These cups were difficult to cap (putting the lids on securely was a comedy show) and they created a mess when used in the Keurig; the water went everywhere.  Add together PIA and MESS with an end outcome of weak cup o' Joe = I'm not a very happy buyer.
,,,,,Big disappointment,The lids are impossible to secure.  This purchase was a complete waste of money.  Product cannot be used as lids are unable to be secured.
,,,,,could be better,"They look like a good idea.  My wife and I thought we would give them a try.  They are pretty easy to use.  The thing we don't like is the mess they make in the machine.  Even when to top is secure, they leak into the machine. You have to keep cleaning the filter basket or it gets sticky.  I would advise you to use something better like the E-Z Cup."
,,,,,There is a much cheaper way to re-use your K-Cups ......,"Looking at all the disposable/reusable K-Cup designs I think I will forgo purchasing any at this time and continue to use my tried and true *free* method.<br />*Free after the cost of an original K-Cup.<br /><br />After using your K-Cup filled with coffee that you've purchased:<br /><br />Take off the aluminum lid that seals the top.<br />Empty grounds into the trash or compost.<br />Rinse out the inside.  You will see there is already a filter inside.<br />Fill with your own coffee.<br />Place a small square of aluminum foil on top and be sure to make it tight and sealed around the top edges of the cup.<br /><br />Now reuse your cup a few times or many, it's up to you as long as the filter holds up.  Just re-do all the steps for each cup you make."
,,,,,Save money but use with care,"There is known design flaw having to do with the gasket on the upper needle. You can hear the screams about that by reading the reviews for the 'My Cup'. The gasket moves too much and as a result is does not seal correctly. Green Mountain seems to not want to fix it since it means selling less over-priced coffee, which is what these machines are designed to do.<br /><br />1. No matter what method I use, I have learned to carefully reach in and pull the little washer/gasket down as far as I can on the upper needle. This will ensure a better seal and avoid overflow.<br /><br />2. Just as importantly when I put the DisposaKup in, I press it down to make sure the lower needle has pierced the cup completely. This will make sure you have a flow of water that streams through the cup.<br /><br />3. Fill it up and then tap the cup on the counter to settle the coffee grinds into the cup, do not press the coffee down or pack it in.<br /><br />The key is take a couple extra seconds and these will work perfectly and you will save money. I love mine and will be ordering more once they are available again."
,,,,,How to stop the leaking!,After a lot of trial and error (with just water!) I figured out how to make these handy self-fill coffee pods NOT leak all over the place. The secret is to shove the filter all the way into the pod and NOT snap the lid over the edge of the filter. Make sure the filter is ALL INSIDE. It's rigid enough and stays upright and fine when you brew. You really need to create a seal with the lid. Leaving the filter hanging out breaks the seal and allows liquid to seep out.
,,,,,good option,My daughter lives in Hawaii and sent me some great coffee from there. I have a Keurig and  was not sure how to use the new coffee. I got these fast fast and now am using my Hawaiian coffee. Great product.
,,,,,disposa kups ordered from Amazon,I ordered the disposa kups with the thought of making my own kups. They don't fit together without a big production. The lids won't fit and water comes out the top of the brewer lid as well as the kcup. Just a big mess. not what I wanted at all. want to return them and get a refund. Donna Phillips
,,,,,Almost; but not quite,"We use the K-caps so that we can re-use our K-cups by refilling them with the coffee we like.  We have lost or given away several of the caps over the 2 years that we've been using them; so I thought I would buy some more K-caps.  It turns out, the prices for them have increased substantially; so I went in search of another alternative that would be less expensive.  I found these and thought I had found the answer; but they don't quite work as well as the original K-cups.  They actually caused the Keurig to spew water in directions other than the intended direction and then allowed enough coffee grounds to escape that the holder for the cups became clogged and had to be disassembled and thoroughly cleaned before it could be used again.  Good idea - but not quite right."
,,,,,I use these for air tight pre-measured storage containers AFTER I have figured out the correct grind and amount,"This comment refers to ALL OF THE DO IT YOURSELF K-CUPS.<br />My K-Cup by Keurig<br />Ekobrew<br />EZ Cup.<br /><br />They products above ALL HAVE THE SAME PROBLEM.<br />You have to get the correct grind on the whole coffee bean.<br />And it's NOT what you think if you are familiar with grinding espresso.<br /><br />If water is coming out the top, (of the products listed above) the grind is too small and/or too much volume.<br />The coffee is too weak and you jump to the conclusion it's because the grind is too coarse or you do NOT have enough coffee.<br />Wrong, it's because the water went over the top and NOT THRU THE GROUNDS is the reason it is weak.<br />Start off with about 1-3/4 tablespoons (do not exceed 2 tablespoons)<br />The grind will probably be MORE COARSE than what you typically use for BUNN type drip.<br /><br />Once I got the right combination of grind setting and amount of coffee, ALL OF THESE FILTERS worked.<br /><br />I have the capresso infinity conical burr grinder.<br />For Duncan Donut Whole Bean I use the<br />MEDIUM #4 position.<br />I use two tablespoons.<br /><br />There are 16 grind settings<br />Extra Fine 1-4<br />Fine 1-4<br />Meduim 1-4<br />Coarse 1-4<br /><br />Note that for Bunn drip coffee I use Medium #2<br /><br />For espresso I used from fine #3 to other settings ... (adapted to get a 25 second draw)<br /><br />Once you get the right RECIPE they all work.<br /><br />But .....<br />Where this product comes in handy is NOT IN BREWING coffee, but in storing your recipe in an AIR TIGHT CONTAINER.<br /><br />Grind a weeks worth of coffee and store it in these cups with the lid on and no holes in the bottom.<br /><br />Then during the week, grab one of these already premeasured cups,<br />remove the lid<br />and pour into the My Keuring K-Cup<br /><br />I found that if the grind is toward the fine side, all these will leak. The My K-cup was the best of the lot for not leaking,<br />But like I said above if the get the grind more toward the coarse side they ALL WILL WORK.<br /><br />Bottom Line:<br />This product is great for storing pre-measured amounts that you have ground earlier in weekly batches.<br />Make your measuring and grinding mess ONCE and then fill up 14 or so of these cups with your own recipe.<br /><br />If you want to get more accurate, instead of using tablespoons get a good digital scale for weighing.<br /><br />Note that if you are in a hurry then go ahead and DO USE THIS PRODUCT as advertised here.<br />I just thought that these were too expensive also and that you had to keep reordering them.<br />But yes go ahead and use them if you want to do that."
,,,,,DisposaKups,"These do work nicely, but some of them for some reason seem to ""stick"" on the upper ""needle"".  I have yet to figure out why they stick on that needle, but when they do it is a real ""pain"" to remove it!  This is a minor, and only a sometimes glitch, so that is why 4 stars in stead of 5.<br />My machine in a brand new one, so the needle being ""dirty"" isn't the problem.  When these don't stick, they work very nicely and as stated.<br />I wish the little cups that hold the filters were biodegradable as that would be a real plus..., but these do save money since the k-cups are so expensive.  I will continue to use these, and spend the savings on really great coffee!!  LOL!"
,,,,,I love these things!!,"I have never enjoyed my Keureg more!  They couldn't be easier to use and I'm so happy to be using my favorite coffee and making it to my own specifications.  Love these things!!<br /><br />Additional comment:  In reading the reviews I see some complaints about leakage, etc... one trick I have come to rely on is NOT to fill the kup all the way to the top with the coffee.  You need to leave some room at t the top so that the lid isn't touching the coffee inside (maybe a little less than 1/2cm from the top rim).  When I follow this protocol, I get a perfect cup every time.  When I fill it too high, I end up with leakage.  The only problem is that I usually need a cup of coffee int he morning before I can follow my own instructions."
,,,,,disposable Kcups and filters,"I am sorry to say I had trouble with the cups themselves. Each time I used them, my machine would say ""decalcify"" which I did the first time. When I used them the 2nd and 3rd times, the problem occurred again. I was able to clear the hot water spout with a toothpick, which remedied the problem. I will not use them again, though, because I don't want to have to do that after every use."
,,,,,Fine ground,This is what is needed to use with finely ground coffees. It works well. With none fine ground coffee I prefer using my Solo Fill Cups they are easier to use. I have had six for some time and have had no problem except when using fine ground coffee.
,,,,,Never again!,"The units go together easily, but no matter how much or little coffee I put in the filter, it caused overflow. It's as if the filters are too thick. I also had a few cups that didn't pierce correctly.  Definitely not worth the money for these!"
,,,,,They do not work,"These little cups are a waste of money. The Kerug machine had a difficult time processing the coffee through the cup, and as a result I ended up with several half cups of coffee.<br /><br />I tried it about 10 times, and then gave up."
,,,,,Poor Performance,"I got coffee grounds in my cup 4 out of the 5 times I used these. Very disappointed because I would like to use my coffee. The hole punctured in the bottom is larger than the one punched out with the regular K-cups, probably due to the design on the bottom of the cup. I have to flush the system each time I have used this product, wasting time and water."
,,,,,Waste of money,"I tried these disposaKups several times, and each time the filter came loose at the top resulting in coffee and grounds everywhere.  The kup and lid are both made from flimsy plastic that softens at the brewing temperature.  The result is a loose fit at the top during brewing, distortion of kup at the bottom (because filter is forced down) and coffee and grounds everywhere.  The lids work one time with OEM Keurig kups (cleaned and refilled), but the second time they are loose and result in overflow.  An email to the company for a refund was not answered.  Do not buy these!"
,,,,,5-Star rating for LiquiBuy!,I ordered 100 DisposaKups.  They came fast and were just what was advertised.  I will definitely be re-ordering.  Thanks alot!!
,,,,,Neat concept,"Neat concept. Other contraptions to use your own coffee have prepunched holes and are designed much differently than the K-Cup. This is like a do it yourself K-Cup. However, because this consists of a disposable cup, filter, and a cap and is punched by the brewer, I would not be surprised if this mechanism infringed on Keurig's patents. Oh, and the video review submitted by the other reviewer looks suspiciously like the video on the manufacturers website :)"
,,,,,Why Didn't Someone Think Of This Sooner?,"Empty K-Cups, miniature filters and lids allow you to use your own favorite ground coffee.  If you buy roasted beans and grind your own, this is the solution for you.  One scoop in the K-Cup, put on the lid and pop it into your Kuerig.<br /><br />I shied away from buying a Kuerig because I love my Kenya-AA from Talk 'n Coffee in Deptford, NJ.  They roast it dark, grind it almost to percolator coarseness for me (sigh) and ship it to me here in Florida.  I had tried mesh filters but even with my custom percolator grind, I'd get grinds in the brew.  The special cup holders looked like a labor-intensive solution too so I stuck with my Mr. Coffee.  When I saw the disposable cups on Amazon, I ordered them along with the Keurig.<br /><br />This works great!  A single fresh hot cup of Kenyaa AA dark roast whenever the spirit moves me and no worries about having to make a partial pot for only one cup.  I'll have Talk 'n Coffee grind the beans a little finer for the Kuerig on my next order.  I re-ground my percolator grind a little finer and the portion strength is now perfect for the travel mug size.<br /><br />Kathy buys loose tea and uses the disposable K-Cup for a mug whenever it suits her fancy.  It's a lot easier than the little metal thingie with the chain and waiting for a kettle to boil.<br /><br />One benefit I hadn't counted on is that clean-up is easy and fast - pluck the used disposable K-Cup from the Kuerig and toss it in the trash.  No more having to service the coffee pot!<br /><br />To save time in the morning, I used to set up Mr. Coffee the night before but now I just make up the disposable K-Cups a dozen at a time and we fresh-brew by the cup in the morning for several days running. We actually use less coffee after evaporation and ""who doesn't want the last cup"" considerations.  I think the savings on coffee and Mr. Coffee filters is probably break-even with the cost of the disposable K-Cups so net-net, they seem free.<br /><br />Only one con from me.  It's hard for these arthritic old hands to fit the lid on due to the filter overlapping the top of the K-Cup.  Folding or cutting away the overlap causes grinds in the brew and a clogged lower needle.  I don't think there is a cure without the downside being greater than the problem.  I have found patience and not over loading the K-Cup to be the best solution."
,,,,,1st time using disposakups,"Great product.  I was looking for a way to use my coffee in my krueig machine (by cuisinart) with out having to use the supplied filter.  Let's face it, the whole point is to make a cup of coffee using the k-cup and not have to fill the little filter, then clean it afterwards.  Kinda defeats the purpose.  I was looking for this type of item and hoping that I could pre-package my brand of coffee. I was skeptical at first, but thought for the price, I'd give it a try AND the product works GREAT.  I fill up the 50 cups with the filter, lid and store it in an old K-cup box.  The lids fit tight and it works just like the more expensive k-cups. The only issue is that on my 12 cup setting, there is a little spill over, but there are no problems with the 10 cup setting.  Once in a while when you open the top to put in another cup, it will stick to the top of the machine where the hole punctures the cup, but that's in once in a while.  In fact I am about to purchase again.  I only wish the shipping wasn't as much as the product.  It arrived earlier than scheduled I believe. All in all, I will be using these on a regular basis."
,,,,,DisposaKups are Fantastic,"When I bought my Keurig Brewer, I was so impressed at how it worked.  The different types of coffee and how it brewed.<br />HOWEVER - I did not realize how expensive the coffee K-cups would be.  I couldn't spend 80.00 dollars a month on coffee!!<br /><br />Then I found DISPOSAKUPS - What a great idea and they are so easy to use. The very best part about them is that fact that they can be thrown away - No having to wash the insert that Keurig provides.<br /><br />These cups do not leak.  They work perfectly!  I will be ordering more."
,,,,,Not the same,"Bought a pack of a 100 of these and each cup it takes so long to process the coffee.. Each cup I get coffee grounds in and not a whole cup of coffee.. Great concept, I believe the paper filter is to fine which holds back the coffee and pressure which results in bleeding of coffee grounds out of the 2 other holes.. Regular K Cups work work much better.. Again great idea, just not so great of a product.."
,,,,,Works great.,It worked just as it claimed.  I had no leaking at all and it brewed a really great tasting cup of coffee.  Really happy that I've found these.
,,,,,Keurig Cups Lids & Filters,These cups and filters work excellent.  A cheaper alternative to use your own coffee.<br />Will definitely purchase more.
,,,,,Not worth the trouble,"First of all, I thought I could save money filling my own Keurig K-Cups. By the time I bought the fillable cups, paid shipping and bought coffee to put in them, I was already in the hole.<br />If all you have to do is fill these little cups all day I guess it will work for you, because you can have the coffee of your choice. The other problem was is they get stuck in the brewer when you try to take them out.<br />I still have about thirty left, and when they are gone I will not replace them."
,,,,,Exactly what I needed!,"I looked, I bought, I tried several different types of brewing cups.  For the cost and quality, these are the best! I can make a few ahead of time...using MY preferred brand of coffee. I'll, definitely, keep these in stock at my house!"
,,,,,Spews coffee grounds inside Keurig machine K-cup holder and down into my coffee every time!,"I thought these would be the perfect answer. Sadly, I guess the pressure with which my Keurig machine shoots the water through the k-cup is too much for the disposa cup, because every single time I tried it, coffee grounds were spewed up through the tiny hole in the lid of the disposa cup all over the inside of where the k-cup sits in my keurig. And yes, I used them properly.<br /><br />So the issue, at least in my Keurig machine, seems to be with the lids. Some have suggested its a design flaw with the Keurig machine. In either case, these disposa cups were NOT the answer for me.<br /><br />Biggest waste of money ever. I cannot recommend."
,,,,,don't even consider it,"I bought this through Amazon because most items i have purchased through them have been great.  THIS PRODUCT IS THE EXCEPTION.  They are very difficult to seal or close once filled, and they make one huge mess of your machine.  This product is just not ready for prime time. Also,  it isn't a cheap product.  The filters leak out of the sides which i don't understand as it can't be  sealed any better than i have been doing.  Most important, and this IS IMPORTANT, IT IS MADE IN CHINA, so you just can't be sure that it is free of chemicals that are released during the brewing process.  Other products clearly state that they are Chemical free.  I can't remember if it BTh or BHT, but take that into consideration.  BUY SOMETHING ELSE.  PLEASE."
,,,,,Not worth buying!,"The service and delivery from Amazon was great.  However, the product itself is not worth buying.  No matter what I try, coffee leaks out around the Kcup when brewing....it makes a mess!  Wanted the cups to use my favorite coffee (Tim Hortons), but guess I'll just have to get used to other brands!"
,,,,,"Can you say, ""leak""?","My sister bought a Keurig. We all started using it. But mom still had her cans of coffee. I didn't want them to go to waste, so I bought this figuring I could make her k-cups with her own coffee. The cups are flimsy, first of all (most of them buckle too easily while getting the top on). It *looks* like a good seal (and yes, I made sure there were no coffee grounds on the edge, which I know can screw up the seal), but they still leak. Get one of the reusable cups. It'll be better for you and your Keurig."
,,,,,DisposaCups,"I recently received a Kuerig Coffee Maker  and realized that the coffee cups would be a costly add on to the product. DisposaCups came to the resue. These durable cups can be filled with your own coffee rather than the expensive Kuerig cups. My only issue with these cups is that when I fill them to save for later use, the tops do not stay on snuggly. Hope they work on this."
,,,,,poor design,"The lids keep popping off when the cup fills up with water, the only I have not tried is putting 2 holes in bottom of the cup so that the water might flow out faster. It's a damn mess getting coffee grounds in your cup! I would not buy anymore of them, unless I can fix the problem!!!!!No more disposebale K-cups for me!"
,,,,,disposable k cups,"We put together the cups.  Everything went well with t he coffee into the cups along with a filter.<br />When putting the kcup into the coffee machine it would only drip.  I checked everything and it was put together correctly. I took the made up cups to my son's coffee maker keurig brand also, it did the same thing.  It starts out ok only made drips of coffee.<br />We tried it with two different modes of Keurig and both did not work.It did make holes in right places."
,,,,,Did not work well - clogged my machine,"I was anxious to try these cups since they seemed to be sealed like the original K-Cups, but was very disappointed in the product.  Though the cups came with no instructions, it was apparent that you just put the filter in, add coffee, then pop the lid on.  Trouble is, the filters size and shape indicate they should hang over the outside edge of the cup, but when doing that I found it impossible to seal the cups.  So I had to tuck the filter inside to be able to close and seal the lid.  After doing that and trying, the coffee ran VERY slow though the K-Cup and after only about three cups, the Keurig machine seemed to get clogged up and stop working.  I cleaned out with vinegar and tried again, but same result.  I ended up throwing these away as it didn't seem worth the effort to return them.  NOT a good product!"
,,,,,Great product,The pods worked as described.  I did not have overflows. I found the best way to secure the top is to press the raised area in the center of the top. Wish they were sold in larger quantities
,,,,,Good try ...but,I was really hoping that your product would solve my discontent with the Keurig coffe maker that I received for Xmas.  I am a coffee and chicory drinker so of course I wanted to have the same great coffee thru the Keurig machine.  The mesh filter that I bought first left a slimed residue in the brew....so I believed that the paper filter you created would do the job....well it does it's work properly but it is a little large for the Keurig device....so water and grinds sort of go everywhere.......I dont think your product isnt good ...the whole Keurig experience is a great disappointment!
,,,,,Very helpful. I can use my own coffee,I had been looking for something to use with my own coffee. I know the Keurig has its own My K-cup but I wasn't satisfied with the results. There were also suggestions on making personal k-cups by saving the used k-cups and rinsing them out and refilling them with coffee and then covering them with foil or plastic wrap. What a pain that was.<br /><br />After looking at several different disposable k-cups for the keurig I came across this one and felt it did what I wanted. Much less mess involved and works great.
,,,,,Disposable is great!,"These DisposaKups work great.  I simply fill up a dozen or more with my favorite flavored coffee, and I'm good to go.  It's a great alternative to buying the expensive pre-filled K-cups; not only were the pre-filled K-cups expensive, but they don't offer my favorite coffee blends.  I was using the reusable K-cup filters which are quite expensive to purchase, so I only had 2 & they leaked while brewing & were messy to empty and wash to re-use.  The DisposaKups work much better--just as well as the pre-filled K-cups, no leaks, no mess!  And I can re-use them again if I want by throwing out the filter, rinsing, & using a fresh filter (just have to line up the holes).  Great product! I highly recommend it.  I love my coffee machine again."
,,,,,Like but not perfect,"I recieved my DiposaKups and was a little disappointed.  First, they took quite awhile to arrive in the mail, however when I was tracking the product, it did say that it would take some time to deliver.  I have the Keurig Cuisinart, and the cups work ok, but they don't allow the machine to finish the brewing process.  It doesn't allow the hinge to completely close, which won't let the machine complete the brewing.  I have to take the cup out in order for it to finish.  HOWEVER, it is very convenient and makes it much more cost effective, but I don't know that I would buy them again because I'm worried I may ruin my machine."
,,,,,Real money saver!,"Awesome idea!  I couldn't find my husband's favorite coffee in the k-cups, so I bought these to make my own.  Works great with loose leaf teas too."
,,,,,Great Product,This product is the way to go for making your own favorite blend of coffee and loose leaf tea. I use them for tea and found that I can reuse them for two or three cups.
,,,,,Good product - expensive shipping,I purchased this product to be able to use my own coffee and tea in the Keurig. The product does what it says. The only drawback that I can tell exists is the expensive shipping. I'd also like to have some suggested measurements for coffee and tea to fill the cup. Perhaps a section on their website where people can just start recording their experiences with different amounts of product... Just my 2 cents.
,,,,,Glad I got 3 boxes,"I really like the idea of the K cup coffee maker. You make it the strength that you want and no wasting a half a pot of coffee. I DID NOT like the horrible price for the ""pre-made"" K cups. This is a great compromise. The only thing that could be a bit of a problem for some is that they will leak if you don't puncture them fully. This is easily corrected by lifting the open/close lever once and closing a second time. Now, if they would make them out of biodegradable cardboard or something else I could compost, the rest of the planet would love them too."
,,,,,disposa cups & filters,"These work fine. All I really wanted to try were the paper filters, the plastic is not environmentally friendly. I have a reusable Keurig filter but it is messy to clean after use. The paper filters work great in it & I can use my own coffee, which is not available through Keurig.  I've asked if the paper filters could be bought  separately but never got a response."
,,,,,Keurig DisposaKups,"I have read mixed reviews on the DisposaKups, so I had no expectations.  I would like to say that the product has worked perfectly.  Maybe the issue with some users is that they are not pressing the lid on tight enough or are not allowing the filter to hang over the edge and be sealed in place by the lid.  There was NO leaking at all and I have used 10 cups already.  I also read that the coffee does not seem to be as strong as regular brew.  That is true, probably due to the type of grind.  My resolution to the issue is to have a regular coffee cup in place, but choose the smallest cup on the Keurig, which gives you roughly half a cup of coffee.  Lift the handle as though you are going to remove the kcup and just push it back down and brew a second tiny cup into the already brewed cup.  Viola!  Perfect.  I definitely recommend and will certainly purchase again."
,,,,,But Don't Use for Teas,"I have given this product five stars because it works very well for coffee with the filters that come with it.<br /><br />But my five stars come with a warning: don't use these little cups without using the little filters, especially with teas or tea-based coffee substitutes (like loose ""Teeccino"").  The tea-leaves swell to a far greater extent than water-logged, ground coffee beans.  They also swell much faster, which tends to clog the small, unprotected puncture at the bottom of the little cups.  So, not using the filter is a very, very dumb idea.  If you put less tea in the little cups, the tea still clogs the system without the filters!<br /><br />So.. Be wise, and use the cups with the filters.<br /><br />For what it's worth, though, the Solo ""My K-Cup"" works perfectly with all types of contents, with or without the little filters.  It's ridiculously expensive, however.  Happily, for me, who am not flowing with dough, the plastic cups (with the little filters) are an answer."
,,,,,Better,"These cups are simple and easy to use the only drawback is the fact that maybe 1/3 of the cups get caught in the unit when you open. However, they are easy to remove once you just close and reopen."
,,,,,Makes a great cup of Joe,"It is just like a k-cup...no ground left in the bottom of my coffee.  Makes a strong, hot cup of Joe.  The cup melts to the shape of your coffee maker.  It works wonderfully, but when i did the math for saving a few bucks...the whole reason i went looking for an alternative...it is just about the same as buying the prepackaged cups (i try to buy the K-cups around $28), except you can choose your own coffee and YOU have to measure it out.  Now i have not used all 50 cups yet so i will see if some of my coffee is left over and then it might be a little cheaper. The breakdown... $18 dollars for the disposable cups (shipping included), and $10 for my favorite coffee + time to fill the cups + environmentally wasteful = We need a better solution.  The reusable filters received mixed reviews, but i might give it a shot."
,,,,,Real BAD idea,These K-Cups have damaged something causing the water to not come through my already made K-Cups. I now have to put a ready made in and puncture it then open it and turn the K-Cup and puncture it again for the water to come through. I think the material in the disposable K-Cup is too heavy and damages the needle on the bottom.
,,,,,a must for anyone who thinks K cups are too expensive,"I purchased these on a whim, and after researching for other disposable products. I have the single mesh filter plastic re usable one, but the ""convenience"" factor of a disposable is not there. you have to then clean it and all that mess. with this product, simply pop a filter (included_ into the cup, (included) fill it with 1-2tsp of your own blend, or folgers starbucks, anything. and use the included cup holder to pop a lid on (which are also included) I bought 50 and am now so happy with these I'm ordering 200 more. why?? because for the 12-15$ you spend on these cups you can make 50 coffee's  if you have some regular coffee in your fridge, use that. you can even say a bag of starbucks breakfast blend ground is around 10.00, so your at 22.00 , thats only 2 boxes of 12 Kcups coffee's and you can fill 75-100 on a single 1lb bag, a 1.5lb tub of folgers can fill about 400 of these refills for 9.00 for the tub  so go for it, you won't regret it...<br /><br />one thing i want to point out is the included filters DO hang out the edges a bit, nothing wrong, it just adds to the seal, and depending on your brewers strength you can see ""seepage"" AFTER brewing a cup, but who cares, they are disposable. if you are a total cheap wad you can pop the lids off and use the cups again if you don't mind a whole in the bottom from where the brewer pops it. but your Freshness won't last with a re used cup.  Hope this review helps!!! thanks!"
,,,,,DisposaCups,Handy cups were easy to fill using the enclosed stand and performed quite well. Lids fit snugly and ran well through my Keurig machine.
,,,,,Great!,Works great. So much easier to use than the one you buy for the machine. Less mess - just throw it away!
,,,,,just perfect,What can I say - they just work. No muss no fuss. Fill the cup pop the top on and save money.
,,,,,"Finally, an answer to the expensive Keurig cups","So glad that someone came up with these.  We had experimented with several ways to make a filter for the ""fill your own"" kup that came with the Keurig and nothing worked.  These are great and we like the coffee we use much better than the kups from Keurig.  The only problem with the DisposaCups is that sometimes the folds on the paper filters prevent you from securing the lid.  To remedy this, I spread the folds out a little more, then the lid snaps right on.  Great product, saves a ton of money.  And, we reuse the cup and only replace the lid and filter!"
,,,,,Good product,"These cups are usable as stated.  They are exactly what I was looking for which was a less expensive method to have coffee.  They do leak slightly but not too bad. Not sure if it makes the hole's a little larger than the prepackaged cups.  But on the high side, I do get the have the coffee that I want, the way I want it. Which is great."
,,,,,"great for ""work coffee""","I fill up a dozen of these with DD dark and take them to work for my afternoon cup.  I use Eko (not solofil) at home for my breakfast dose.  These do the job, are very economical, and I only have a problem with a bit of grinds run-through if the *machine* is dirty - they need to be wiped down every do often, and don't let the needles plug up."
,,,,,Disposable cups a must,These cups are great. I have been reusing the originals and putting aluminum foil for the top.  These make it much easier and you can reuse them also.
,,,,,Excellent!,This was a return buy. I bought 50 to try and loved them. This time I ordered 150.00. They are fab for your favorite coffee
,,,,,Mr,"I'm not happy with these reusuable cups ! They don't hold enough coffee so when using the Keuring system, I get a small cup of coffee intead of the middle button. I hope Keurig comes out with a better reusable k cup holder."
,,,,,Patience is the key!,"I was looking for a simple and inexpensive way to provide my own supply of ""home made"" K-cups. This product is all that it is described to be;fairly easy to use and does not adversely affect the cup of coffee. Clearly, the cups and lids are in fact reusable albeit a little messy.<br />I have used all 50 filters so I am at a point where I need to decide if I want to continue on with this regimen or go to plan B.<br />I am electing to try one of the reusable style cups that don't require the use of a filter. My hope is that it will be a little quicker and less messy to use.<br />However, if plan B does not meet my expectations I can always order another supply of filters and continue on with this DisposaCups system."
,,,,,Great way to use your own coffee,"Great way to use your own coffee rather than buying k-cups.  They are great because you don't have to change out the holding tray and there is no mess, u just toss them like you would a k-kup, no washing out of the filter every time.  It would be nice if there were not 3 parts to the process (filter already in cup).  I just load up 10 at a time and am set for the week."
,,,,,Not very good for me,"The basic problem with this product is that unless you load a VERY small amount of coffee in the filter, the filter clogs.  This causes the coffee ground and hot water to back up through the hole in the top and cause a mess.  My son and I spent a few hours experimenting with different ways to prevent this but we have admitted defeat.  I suspected the filter but I used filters which work perfectly fine in my EZ Cup still result in a mess on my kitchen counter. Even worse, coffee grounds in my coffee!  However, if you like your coffee very weak, this will work well for you.  I hope they can fix the design issues.  Until then, I will stick with my EZ Cup."
,,,,,Experimental trial and error,"It took a couple of tries to figure out how to snap on the cap and a couple of tries to tell how much coffee to put in it for the strength preferred.  After that, it is economical and not much trouble."
,,,,,"Good idea, but needs some work","This is a great idea, but i find that the grounds get into the coffee, and the coffee doesn't come out of the maker as nice as the regular kcups.  It is messy as it comes out and misses the mug.  It still is nice but is not quite as good as the orginal."
,,,,,Very Happy,I am very happy with the DisposaCup Single Serve Brewers. The item arrived in a timely manner and was in perfect packaging. Now I can brew my favorite brand of coffee anytime I want.
,,,,,K-Cup cups,Received the order very fast. The lids are a little hard to get on. But they work fine. It's a good way to use your own brand of coffee if you like.
,,,,,Disposible K cups via Amazon,The cups are a little tight for my machine. You have to press down on the handle really hard. Also the lids don't fit properly unless the filter is pushed down all the way into the cup.
,,,,,Great product,I picked these up for my wife so she could make coffee out of any brand she likes. They work perfectly in her new Keurig that I got her for Christmas. You couldn't ask for better.
,,,,,"Good and bad, be aware, read reviews carefully","Good, easy to use, somewhat hard to get the caps on, but at the end you can easily dispose of these disposable Kups after using.<br /><br />Good that you can use your own coffee.  Fresh coffees.  I personally like coffees from Spain, Puerto Rico and other countries.<br /><br />The bad, sometimes is messy.  Coffee grinds seem to leak, creating a slight mess and the need to clean the machine.  This leak is more in the area of the Kups lid and cup.  And some times these grinds even get in your cup of coffee.  Just read other reviews about this.  Not sure if it could be related to how fine are the grinds of coffee.<br /><br />On the other hand, with disposable Kups you don't need to keep cleaning wire filter baskets.  That's a very plus.<br /><br />All considered will probably buy again, but wish a better lid/cup seal that will not leak.  Hope down the road they will offer improved DisposableKups."
,,,,,Very Positive Experience,"We have had a Keurig Mini Brewer for over 2 years and the family really likes it!  We all have different tastes and we like the idea of preparing a cup of our choice, without wasting an entire pot.  We enjoy hot chocolate, hot tea, iced tea, and, of course, coffee - but, even then, we like a good cup of ""morning"" coffee, flavored coffee during the day, and decaf at night - so the pot is in use constantly and with a variety of goodies.<br /><br />I was given a gourmet assortment of ground coffee, and it has been sitting on the shelf for quite awhile.  But, now, thanks to the disposable K-cups, I am finally able to experiment with some lovely new flavors, while the ""stuffy die-hards"" in the family can stay with their favorite brew.  As soon as I saw the disposable K-cups and filters I knew I had to order this product. It's easy to use - disposable - and it's just as fast to make a cup of delicious coffee in this container as it is to stand over the two-drawer rack trying to decide which flavor to choose.  We are very happy with this product!"
,,,,,Saves money,These k-cups really save money. I can have the coffee I like and my husband can have his.  Delivery was quick and product exactly as described.  Will be buying more!
,,,,,DisposaKups,"I really like them, but they are sort of hard to put the lid on without crushing the cup. Wish that was easier."
,,,,,DisposaKups are a nice alternative!!,"I love these little DisposaKups! It seems everywhere I go, people have a Keurig. At work, my daughters, and my girl friends all have a Keurig. Except, my favorirte coffee doesn't come in a premade k-cup so with an espresso grind and these DisposaKups I can bring my favorite Keurig coffee any where I go! Have DisposaKups, will travel!"
,,,,,Great product great customer service!!,This is a great product and you provided great customer service. Thanks so much for the opportunity to purchase this item.
,,,,,Disposable Kups,"My husband recently bought me a Keurig Brewer.  I was excited for my new toy but my joy quickly turned into dismay when I saw how expensive the little ""cups"" cost.  I love coffee and have always bought beans to grind.  I was DELIGHTED when I found these wonderful little disposable filters to use with my Brewer.  Now I have the best of both worlds!<br />I placed my order and to my surprise they showed up 3 days later!"
,,,,,Disappointed,"Thought this might be a nice alternative to use with my favorite coffee, but was sadly disappointed.  It leaked all over - no matter what we tried and the coffee was weak, machine clogged with most attempts and water wouldn't brew thru.  At times the cup even melted a little - leaving a nasty taste in the coffee.<br /><br />Go with the greener alternative and try the ekobrew - much better results and no waste."
,,,,,DISPOSACUP,I was happy to get the disposacups and look forward to using them.  I really like the paper filters. I am wondering if the cups can be used again. I know the lid can't. I will see what happens with this for future uses.
,,,,,Disposakups,"They work great , now I can use my on coffee and that is nice only four littlt steps. Cup-filter-coffee-lid"
,,,,,DisposaKup Review,Not thrilled with these.  Doubt I will buy them again.  Lid doesn't fit very well.  Messy and did not make a good cup of coffee.  Cost including shipping to me was .36/filter cup plus coffee. Don't think it is worth it as I can buy a Green Mountain K-Cup for around .54/cup and they are perfect every time.
,,,,,A near perfect solution,"We have a Michigan-based coffee cafe (now renamed ""Biggby's"") that stomps Starbucks. (Biggby's was originally named ""Beaners,"" a name that encountered resistance as the franchise spread.) Their<br />dark roasts are to die for --- none of the K-cups come close (except possibly for G.M. Espresso). So this build-it-yourself K-cup is a near perfect solution. The downside is that the brewing takes much longer and there is a bit of splatter. Also the caps are a bit difficult to snap down. Recommended."
,,,,,Inexpensive and works great,"I bought these to be able to use my favorite coffess and lessen the expensive of the prefilled K-cups.  It little bit more time consuming than the prefilled cups, but if you make several at a time, they work great."
,,,,,DisposaKups (Disposalbe K-Cups for Keurig Brewers),"The DisposaKups are great because I can use my own brand coffee and adjust the strength of it. The only thing that needs to be improved on is that the edges of the filter need to be trimmed down to prevent leakage.  At first try it is a little difficult to get the tops on but after a few times of doing it, it becomes easier.  The price is a little steep for me but much less than buying the already filled K-kups.  I feel sure that I will order this product again.<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004TSAZO0"">DisposaKups for Keurig K-Cup Brewers - 50 Cups, Lids, Filters - 100% Disposable - FREE PRIME SHIPPING</a>"
,,,,,Great Item!,This is a really good product. I had a little trouble the first couple times because I didnt tighten the lid down but besides that it is a good item.
,,,,,disposable K cups,"The disposable K cups allow me to use my own coffee with the Keurig single cup coffee maker, better than others I have tried."
,,,,,Disposable K-Cups for Keurig Brewers,"These disposable cups are great!  The simple, clean method of a portion pack but with your own grounds.  Now I need to see if they pack them in larger quantities.  The seller was also great. I got what I wanted and ahead of time also.  No issues to report here.  Anyone with the K-Cup system needs to get this product from this seller."
,,,,,WE ARE PLEASED WITH PURCHASE,"WE ORDERED THESE BECAUSE WE LOVE OUR NEW KEURIG COFFEE MAKER,,,,BUT AS WE DRINK ALOT OF COFFEE FOUND THAT BUYING THE KCUPS ARE WAY TOO EXPENSIVE,,,,WITH THESE WE CAN USE OUR REGULAR COFFEE IN THESE DISPOSABLE CUPS....THEY ARE STILL NOT FUN TO FILL,,,,(NOT AS EASY AS JUST REACHING FOR A PRE=MADE ONE) BUT ARE FAR MORE ECONOMICAL THAN THE PRE-MADE ONES....THEY DELIVERY WAS ON TIME AND AS PROMISED..."
,,,,,Much Better than I anticipated,I really wasn't too sure this product would work.  It has surpassed all my expectations.  I will never buy the ready made K cups again.  This is truly a genius product!
,,,,,"Roy C from Columbia, CT","They are everything I expected except for one flaw. I had trouble keeping the lever completely down on the machine.Great product and my brother was excited also and I gave him a box. I hope they are in stores soon. Such an ease to use, great idea, no clean up just throw away."
,,,,,Great product,Works great. Seems to work wonders. Lid is tight and some times hard to put on. When you get the hang of it easy. I'll buy again.
,,,,,Disposakups review,Purchased these for our new coffee machine. They work very good. No issues. Using these with our regular coffee is a plus.
,,,,,"K-Cups, disposable","These were just what I was looking for, however, when using in my Cuisinart they leak and back up water which spurts out in different areas of my K-Cup area. I don't want to ruin my machine, so I'm trying different things with this disposable cup, i.e., smaller amount of coffee, packing it looser, and smaller amount of water for cup size.  Still leaks some, but it's getting better as before I had about 3 to 4 areas of dripping water/coffee, some hitting inside the coffee cup and several outside of coffee cup."
,,,,,great item great customer service,"I am impressed at how easy these are to use, much better than the one that you can buy from Keurig.<br />Great company to buy from when i go through these will reorder again"
,,,,,LOVE IT!!!!!,i had a kerig before and it broke. the company said it was because i was using expresso in the k-cup and it was to fine and cloged the machine. kerig does not make a k-cup with spanish coffee so when i found these i was very happy. i have been using these for about a month and i love them and it is so much cheaper. i would highly recommend these.
,,,,,Great product,"I love these cups. My husband and I like community coffee from back home  unfortunately, no kkup in their line yet.  These diapisables are perfect.  They perform just as reliably as the standard k cups with the economy and convienance of your own bulk coffees."
,,,,,Delivery and condition only review,"I haven't had a chande to actually try the k-cups to see if they work as advertised.  However the order arrived on time and in excellent condition.  For this a gave the 4 star rating.  If the cups work as advertised, then this rating will jump to 5 stars."
,,,,,DISPOSAKUPS FOR MY KEURIG BREWER,http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004K30HO2/ref=cm_cr_rev_prod_title<br /><br />http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004K30HO2/ref=cm_cr_rev_prod_title<br />DISPOSALKUPS THIS PRODUCT I HIGHLY RECCOMMEND i recieved my first 50 cups and filled them with my own coffee and they worked great i now ordered another 50 cups beings i liked them so much and not only that DO THE MATH<br />50 cups for 10 and change vs 18-24 cups for 10 and change.<br /><br />and i will continue to order again. thank u for coming up with this
,,,,,"Good idea, but material is not strong enough","I purchased this item as an alternative to traditional K-cups in an attempt to save money; however, this product did not work well in my machine. I followed the directions and read reviews to see what works best, but was not able to use the K-cups effectively. The cup itself is too weak and warps in my machine. I compared the shape before and after and there is a big difference; this K-cup seems to expand horizontally and vertically because the plastic is not strong enough. Also, the K-cup is shaped differently from the traditional K-cup. This is neccessary because it does not use foil as a topper, but does not seem to work. In the end, I had to clean up several coffee explosions in my kitchen to figure out how it works, but still could not use it effectively. Maybe I am not doing something correctly, but I'm sure there is also an issue with the product itself. While I do like the idea, I would not suggest purchasing this product until the bugs are worked out."
,,,,,Love DisposaKups,"Love these cups!  I hated paying so much for my beloved Keurig coffees, the cups work great, they are convenient, easy to use and I can use whatever coffee I choose!!!!!"
,,,,,SOOO GOOD!,"My family has been enjoying Bug Bites organic chocolates for years.  I highly recommend both the milk chocolate and the dark chocolate varieties.  They are very smooth and rich, and not the least bit ""waxy"" tasting like some of the more popular American chocolates.  Each individually packaged bite is the perfect size for an adult and maybe a little more than a mouthful for a young child. Each tiny package contains a special treat- a tiny insect card which features a color photograph and interesting facts.  If you have a budding entomologist on your hands, these are the perfect treat! The Endangered Species company is environmentally conscious too, and dedicates 10% of their net profit to support species and habitat preservation."
,,,,,A nice organic option,"The candy is ordinary milk chocolate, but I was very glad to have an organic option to hand out for Halloween. I love the idea of including a little nature education with it, but I was a little disappointed in the text on the insect card I saw, which was not well written and had almost nothing to do with the moth that was pictured. But it's more than you get with most candy."
,,,,,Delicious and educational!,"I hate bugs, but I adore these Bug Bites chocolate squares!  The chocolate is smooth and sweet, and small enough to be a daily indulgence.  Plus, each square comes with a tiny insect flashcard with a photo and factoids for your favorite entomologist.<br /><br />Pull the trigger on this one.  Your sweet tooth will thank you."
,,,,,Dog was pleased,"I put this in my dog's stocking for Christmas.  He was very pleased with the snack.  He likes regular sweet potato fries, so I thought a package of dog ones would make him happy."
,,,,,odd shaped,"i bought these for my pittie who is on a sweet potato and fish diet.  i thought they would be a little larger, but they are more suitable for a smaller breed dog.  they were even a little small for my pug who gulped them down and i was afraid she would choke on them."
,,,,,tasty treat,"This was a new product for our 2 ""kids""...They liked them so well we even thought of trying them! Great price, and obviously a new favorite!"
,,,,,My favorite chocolate covered raisins,"Over the years, I have become an expert on chocolate covered raisins. For something so simple, it's surprising how difficult it is to find one that is truly exceptional. In some, the chocolate is too waxy and tasteless. In others, the raisins are too small or dried out. Kirkland chocolate covered raisins are just right. The raisins are large and moist, and the chocolate is high quality. I used to think that brach's made a good one, until I had these.<br /><br />If you or someone you know is a chocolate covered raisin fan, this is one you must try. The tub is huge and the price is less than boutique chocolatiers want for a small bag of theirs. It is an outstanding value and I doubt you will be disappointed.<br /><br />I have no affiliation with Kirkland or anyone else. I'm just a chocolate raisin fan who knows when he has a great raisin...and these are truly wonderful."
,,,,,The Best Chocolate Raisins,These are definitely the best chocolate raisins out there. They are the perfect balance of chocolate and raisin...and my boyfriend won't have any others. Too many brands have a TON of chocolate around an itty bitty raisin. What's the point? These are great and a treat!
,,,,,Perfect!,"When I was in high school, my mother would always have these around the house. Living in the dorms, I usually only ever find small, overpriced packages of chocolate covered rasins. This is perfect for satisfying my cravings! It stores very well - I've had mine about a month and they taste the same as when I first opened them - delicious!"
,,,,,Delicious!!!,These chocolate covered raisins are amazing. There is a nice balance between raisins and chocolate. I always pick up a container when I am shopping at BJ's Wholesale.
,,,,,Delicious!,I have ordered these raisins multiple times.  They are always great and arrive timely. I can't go back to store bought chocolate covered raisins now! Love this product.
,,,,,The best,"Oh dear, there aren't words to express my feelings for this product.  It's absolutely terrific.  The chocolate melts in your mouth revealing the perfect raisin inside.  You can let them sit in your mouth and savor the moment, or chew through two quickly before throwing more in your mouth - I usually do the latter.<br /><br />I've never been able to find a comparable milk chocolate raisin product so I always end up coming back to these.  They're sold at big discount warehouses and also on Amazon.  Perfect."
,,,,,CHOCOLATE TASTES CHEAP,I thought I was purchasing a high quality item but it's not all that. The chocolate is very sweet and as you chew on this product you can tell the chocolate is loaded with sugar by the crunchy texture. I'm going to say it's not worth the money and I'm not satisfied.<br />At the same time of purchasing this product I also bought Sunmaid chocolate covered raisons which I rate from a 1-10...a 10. Now we are talking about yumminess!!!!!<br />So customers...if you are going to choose...let it be the Sunmaid...you won't be dissappointed
,,,,,My Dog Loves it!,"This dog food is a keeper. I have to buy special dog food for my dog because he has allergies to chicken and brown rice.<br />My Vet prescribed an Iams brand food with kangaroo meat in it. My dog didn't really care for the taste but he ate it.<br />I wanted something more natural, so I looked up Flint River Ranch Fish & Chips. What frustrates me, is how you have to wean your dog off of the old food<br />to gradually get used to the new. He liked the flavor so much, he ate around the old dog food and only ate the Flint River Fish & Chips. Fortunately, his tummy handled<br />the new food really well. We have no problem getting him to eat and I like that he doesn't have to eat a larger serving to get the same nutrition. I will definitely order<br />Flint River Ranch Fish & Chips again, and soon. I recommend it highly."
,,,,,"If you're into spicy, this is the best.","I became a fan for Dave's Gourmet Dave's Burning Nuts about 3 years ago.  This is a very addicting snack. A hefty dose of heat with just the right amount of saltiness. I've introduced them to a number of my co-workers who are now big fans.  I have tried the other spicy nut products on the market, but so far, Dave's is by far the champ!"
,,,,,These are some HOT NUTS!!!,"Okay, I'm eating these nuts as I write this review...<br /><br />And as another review noted, these are pretty addictive... However, I caution you in advance... after a few hand-fulls of these, you will be running around your house trying to find something to drink to put that fire out in your mouth.  If you like some heat and are a peanut fan... you will not be disappointed.<br /><br />Would write more... but... I... need... a... drink!!!  FIRE IN MY MOUTH.<br /><br />HOLY HOT NUTS!!!"
,,,,,"Good, but not great","My Seth is a huge fan of spicy things, the hotter the better. I was hoping these would go over really well, and be a regular snack. He likes them, but just that. I got him the Ass Kickin' Snack Mix, and he devoured it, wolfing it down, so We'll stick with that. I'd still consider this a great buy if you love peanuts. And it's a great price."
,,,,,Yummy nuts,Awesome tasting nuts!  Love them?  Will be ordering them again.  The entire neighborhood wants to eat them all but I am stingy.
,,,,,Spicy and Flavorful...,I've given these to friends that don't eat spicy and they wanted to kill me afterwards.  Actually one person did not want to speak to me at work for a week.  These are pretty spicy.  I'll normally sit down and eat maybe 20-30 at a time and that's it.  If you're a fan of Dave's hot sauces then you owe it to yourself to get this 4 pack.  It's also a great gift or stocking stuffer.
,,,,,Great Spice!,"If you want HOT peanuts, this is your product.  I have tried several other brands, and these peanuts seem to pack the most punch and have a fantastics taste."
,,,,,Great Nuts at a great price,Amazon has the best price in town.  Hot nuts that don't disappoint.  I would recommend trying Dave's other items as well.  Great flavor.
,,,,,tasty nuts!,"these are some pretty darn good nuts with some spicy bite.  they wont change your life, but they are good.  the double entendre in the name is a serious bonus."
,,,,,Best spicy nuts you can pop in your mouth,I've tried pretty much every pepper covered peanut (or cashew) on the market and these are by far the best.  You'd better like spicy though.
,,,,,AMAZING AMAZON BURNING NUTS,"I have been buying these habenero peanuts for some time and they are VERY good and, unfortunately, as advertised, they are also VERY ADDICTIVE!<br /><br />( I am consuming them as I speak...electronically)<br /><br />FORTUNATELY, they are much better NOW since I can order them from AMAZON where I get a MUCH BETTER PRICE and LOW TWO DAY SHIPPING with my membership.<br /><br />This is not a paid advertisement.<br /><br />John"
,,,,,Not for Wimps,"Dave's Nuts are fantastic - hot, spicy. crunchy, and habit-forming.<br /><br />No babies, frail women, or wimpy men need to order!"
,,,,,Hot,"Well, at least they live up to their name. These nuts are definitely hot, too bad that's all the positive I have to say about them. Other than that, they taste like cardboard, and not very good cardboard either."
,,,,,"10 weeks pregnant, these are my go-to item!","YUMMY.  That should be all my review says.  But really, these are just that, yummy.  I am 10 weeks pregnant and haven't felt like eating much these last few weeks, but tonight, the night before I have to fast for a blood draw, I was craving some banana moon pies.  Off to the store I went and bought a box of these mini moon pies - the perfect size!!  You don't feel as bad eating two of them because they are so small, and eating 4 of them is kinda like eating 2 of the bigger ones, not that I did that or anything.  haha  Go get your banana moon pies today - you won't regret it!!"
,,,,,Why can't I find this locally?,"This is absolutely the best tasting coffee I have ever drank!  I can't find it locally, thankfully Amazon has saved me once again."
,,,,,"Awesomely delicious sweetner. Organic, low glycemic, nothing aritfical, gluten free, Vegan,our whole family loves Ohgave.","Love the convienent little squeeze bottles.  My sons put it in and on everything from cereal, tea, pancakes, to even nutbutter or nutbutter sandwiches, and chicken sandwiches.<br /><br />Awesome Taste, who could ask for more.<br /><br /> ""Dissolves instantly in hot or cold. The all natural and organic replacement for sugar in baking, cooking, sweetening beverages of any kind ... Equitably Traded ? Vegan - Kosher - Gluten Free.BPA Free Re-useable/Recyclable Bottle""<br /><br />Renita's Sweet Nutbutter spread recipe:<br /><br />3 tablespoons of RAW agave (more or less to your sweettooth)<br />2 Tablespoon of peanut butter or nut butter.<br />put nut butter in bowl and add agave. Stir with fork until lighter even color or well blended.  Spread on bread for an awesome nutbutter sandwich, or toast, crackers or even chicken for a real treat.<br /><br />My ten year old also likes to use this sweet nut spread on chicken(hot or cold, grilled or fried, enter or even in a sandwich)also works great on soy patties for the Vegan.<br /><br />our favorite nutbutters are :<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001GQ3E28"">Peanut Butter & Co. Peanut Butter, Smooth Operator, 16-Ounce Jars (Pack of 6)</a><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001P22K5U"">Barney Butter Smooth Almond Butter, 16-Ounce Jars (Pack of 3)</a><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002XGL602"">O Organics Creamy Peanut Butter, 18 Ounce Jars (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,gooood coffee,"great coffee--this was way too much to pay for it, but i could not find it anywhere else at the time.  i feel a taken advantage of price-wise and probably would not order again."
,,,,,"Sahlen's in Hollywood, Fl!","I just went to Ralph's International Market, formerly Niagara Distributing, located at 3701 N. 29th Avenue, Hollywood, Florida, I got 3 pounds of Sahlen's for 15.99, they also have 5 pounds for 25.99.  They have more Buffalo favorites, Chivetta's sauce, hot sauce ... check them out!"
,,,,,I love them!,"I figure I would brag, I live in buffalo and just got 3lbs for $7.98! But seriously the best hot dogs ever"
,,,,,Great Hotdogs,i agree with Gary S. it perishable so it need to be ship over night. i ordered 5 pounds and i got it the next day. Thanks Citymade Inc.
,,,,,V E R Y......T A S T Y....!!!!,"These SAHLEN'S SMOKEHOUSE HOTDOGS are ""Totally Yummy"".  They have a lighter flavour than the all-beef hotdogs I am used to....and are NOT as unduly salty!  The delicious smoked taste is there, all right -- but it is NOT overpowering, and will NOT burn your tongue!  Just a nice, subtle flavour.  And this all means not only are they delicious, but also that you won't go looking for gallons of water, (or soda, or whatever), after you eat a few.<br /><br />These are BIG, substantial hot-dogs.  If you want yours in a hot-dog bun, it will probably not only fill the bun, but some of the hot-dog will stick out at either end!<br /><br />If you wnat to take the ""wrapping"" (skin), off the hot dog, this is NOT easily done -- but then, it's not easily done with any of the OTHER hot dogs I've ever tried, either.  BUT -- it is EASIER to take off at least PART of the plastic wrapping -- and JUST the plastic wrapping, leaving the hot-dog itself, totally intact -- with thes Sahlen's Smokehouse Hotdogs, than it has EVER been my experience with any other hot-dogs.  (Maybe if I had more patience, I would indeed have been able to take more of -- or even all of -- the plastic wrap off.  But these hot-dogs are SO yummy, such will, I fear, never be the case!)<br /><br />These hot-dogs are conveniently wrapped two together -- so you will NOT be taking the entire contents out, when you want just one, or two.  At least, you won't do this inadvertently.  But -- once tasting these delightful hot-dogs, you may be sorely tempted to do this deliberately....<br /><br />................>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>>...................<br /><br />On one of Oprah Winfrey's earliest programs, she and some guests went to a very<br />elite restaurant -- SPAGOS.  I'm sure I'm not the only audience member who had never head of Spago's before then.  Recently, I learnt that ""pizza"" at Spagos is<br />filled with SMOKED SALMON!  This makes Spago's pizza the ""non plus ultra"" of pizzas, I'm sure!<br /><br />For ""non plus ultra"", (absolutely NO better) hot-dogs, SAHLEN'S SMOKEHOUSE HOT-DOGS, just HAVE to be the ones.  Sahlen's has been making, (and probably, perfecting), hot-dogs, since 1869, (140 years).  So, for THE ultimate hot-dog, on a par with Spago's pizza, (for pizza), Tetley's Classic Blend, (for tea-bags), Maxwell House Arabica Blend Decaf Instant Coffee, (for instant coffee), Guylian Chocolate Sea Shells, (for chocolate), and other such top-of-the-tastebuds-foods, it's SAHLEN'S SMOKEHOUSE HOTDOGS, for hotdogs.<br /><br />Yes....they ARE that good!"
,,,,,"Great Hot Dog, Stupid price!!","This is one of the best hot dogs made, unfortunatally it is not widely available.  Citymade must be off their rocker if they think people are gonna sale hot dogs for such a crazy price.  Granted there is 30+ weiners in a package, still a stupid price."
,,,,,Excellent,"A friend gave me a tea bag to try while at work yesterday.  I accidentally oversteeped the tea and expected a very strong bitter brew.  I was very happy with the smoothness of this tea.  While it was quite strong, nothing was overpowering and the bitterness I expected was not present at all.<br /><br />My 2nd brewing was done with more care.  This tea has an exceptionally smooth taste and excellent flavor.  I'll be buying Ahmad tea in the future."
,,,,,Excellent Taste,I just loved the tea.  We just add a little honey and sit back and relax.  It has a slight citrus flavor which I find very refresshing.
,,,,,love for earl grey,I spent along time and a lot of money looking for a great Earl Grey... to this point its been loose leaf tea i order from another site until my girl friend went to London with her family bring me back a small sample pack of 10 tea bags. i loved it so much i had gotten this 6 pack of 20 count boxes which i have polished off and reordered since then.<br /><br />The tea stays fresh in the foil package each tea bag  which makes it so air and light cant damage the flavor of the tea which is the problem is loose leaf tea's.<br /><br />The flavor of the tea is a nice Bergamot flavor which is smooth no matter how long you leave the tea in. i perfer mine strong and straight up. each sit is as good as the first. i will keep buying this tea and also try other ones by ahmad of London
,,,,,Good cuppa tea,I love Ahmad tea. The Earl Grey is a wonderful tea for an afternoon sipping. The bergamot flavour isn't overpowering like some other brands I have tried.<br /><br />I will be buying more of this wonderful tea
,,,,,Outstanding tasty product,"Presentation is yous perfect and product really fresh, tea bags came inside individualized plasticized aluminum bag making them to be ever-fresh. I will buy other kind of teas from this seller, hopefully they must be as excellent as the Earl Grey one."
,,,,,Great tea - extremely flavorful,"Having tried a very large number of Earl Grey teas, I've been struck by how particularly flavorful this brand is.  It's really worth trying.  I ended up buying the pack of 6 boxes twice I liked it so much."
,,,,,Ahmad Tea Pleases,"For any Tea lover, (we became fans in England) Ahmad Tea pleases immensely. I/we have sampled tea from quite a few vendors but after our son brought a pack of Ahmad Tea back with him (from Jolly Old..) as a gift, we were sold. We found the flavor splendid. We loved it. It is fully flavored and needs NO sugar/milk/sweetener at all. (And I usually needed sweeteners with the other brands of Earl Grey, so...)<br />Buying it from Amazon is a very economical solution and delivery was expediant. I HIGHLY recommend, if you enjoy hot tea, try this brand!<br />MAC,<br />Please excuse any spelling errors, that may have occurred in my haste, and NO spell-check help. Heheheh. Ta-ta. ""Earl Grey..hot"". JLP"
,,,,,Decent Earl Grey,"This is my wife's absolute favorite Earl Grey.  Me, I find that while the Bergamot flavor is nice, I like a tea base that is a bit brisker."
,,,,,Inconsistent in my experience,"I am attracted to reliable consumables which do not vary much from batch to batch. I expect the single malt scotch I purchase this month will be similar to the one I bought six months ago, all things remaining the same. In my experience, I have had Ahmad Earl Grey Tea that's knocked off my socks with a rich flavor, filled with the bergamot that attracts me to Earl Grey. The box I'm currently drinking is so full of tannin and void of essence of bergamot that I don't know if it will actually be drunk. All boxes I've had contained tea bags with an ample amount of tea and each produces a satisfactory little teapot full of caramel colored tea, but I am having difficulty drinking the second cups from this box because the tea powder residue remains. Instead of enjoying an afternoon of relaxation, I develop a stomach ache, so I'm now skipping the entire second cup.  The tea was recently purchased, so staleness is likely not an issue."
,,,,,Very Tasty!,"Nice serving size, good complement to breakfast.  Low in fat, high in protein, and taste great.  I keep the unused portion in the freezer and microwave them, or heat them in a pan if you want a crispier outside.  They are pre-cooked.  Love 'em!"
,,,,,Hartz Rawhide Chew Sticks Pack of 20,MADE IN CHINA..<br />Even our dog food has gone the way of the Hershey Kiss. I won't be back to this vendor.<br />Will be looking for made and sold in AMERICA only.....
,,,,,Good,"My Experience:<br /><br />It's very translucent, with just a light golden color. It smells like you'd expect a peach to smell, but the taste hints of a white grape juice, though it has no grape in it and tastes more peachy over time, especially as it warms up. It's tingly on the tongue, but doesn't foam up. It's slightly drier than your average juice, with a hint of bitterness, probably from the carbonation.<br /><br />Did I Like it: Yes, though not as much as their offering in Pomegranate-Apple, a 6 out of 10. My wife doesn't like it so much."
,,,,,"Light, sparkling fresh peach flavor !!","I love Kristian Regale Black Currant sparkling drink- so thought I'd try the peach.  I never know if I'm going to get a syrupy sweet flavor when I get peach flavored items, but this was really good- somewhat tart, and tastes like fresh peaches.  The bubbles are tiny- so not like regular sodas, but a 'grown up' sparkling beverage.  I will order this again, and would have no trouble giving this as a gift- if I didn't drink it all first !!  I hope Amazon gets the pear flavored (not the listing for 50+ bucks, either.  I'm sure that would be good as well... but the peach and black currant are definite winners !!"
,,,,,impressive gift,"Was surprised of the inexpensive price tag and skeptical when purchased.  As it turns out, it is a charming and unique gift and a great buy for the price!"
,,,,,"great, tasty mix",REALLY good mix. Pleasantly surprised to find it includes macadamia nuts. We will enjoy this mix immensely. I am sure we will order it again.
,,,,,yummy!,"This is a fantastic product, arrived fresh and it's a good price with subscribe and save. I will be keeping this subscription."
,,,,,Disappointed,"I eat mixed nuts all the time at work. They make a healthy snack instead of the donuts, etc. that are always around. The plus side of these is that they are much lower salt than usual. The down side is that they are almost all cashews. Very few brazil nuts, pecans and it is a miracle to find a macadamia nut. The lack of variety is disappointing."
,,,,,Too bland,The price was comparable to Walmart for same size product.  However these nuts were not as crunchy; and they needed a little more salt.
,,,,,Good flavor and not too salty,I thought these had avery good flavor.  I took two tubs to work and most of the people liked them.  Two or three people commented that they liked them better than some other brands because they are not salty.
,,,,,NOT THAT GREAT,"They do not taste like a good high quality nut, i dont know if it was the lack of salt but they were not for me"
,,,,,"Not bad, not great.... just average.","I would recommend not buying these nuts if you are looking for some really good tasting nuts.  These are just average quality, and the brazil nuts taste just plain awful.  The only good tasting nut in this lot is the almond and pecans.  There are barely any pecans, but tons of cashews.  Try another brand as I am sure there is something better out there."
,,,,,NO GOOD,These are a cheap fake. Nothing like the real Emerald nuts you buy in the store. Its a complete waste of money. DONT get ripped off like I did.
,,,,,horribly overpriced,The stuff is great but I'll pay at most $4 or $5 for four bottles.
,,,,,Smooth and Slightly Sparkly,"The grapefruit and blackberry flavors are the current favorite at my house on Tuesday nights when we try to always have a rotisserie chicken and homemade gravy while watching TV.<br /><br />Once you taste the subtle fruit flavors mingling perfectly in a not overly carbonated sparkling water, you may want to order this by the case.<br /><br />There are no artificial flavorings or colorings, not to mention extra sugar. The only sweetener is grape juice and apple juice concentrate. Lemon juice and fruit concentrates mingle with the sparkling water to create a delicate, smooth, slightly tingly and delicious drink.<br /><br />Perfect for drinking with dinner or taking along on a picnic.<br /><br />~The Rebecca Review"
,,,,,How much?,"I just purchased this today for 3.99. I can't believe this price. The product is wonderful however. Nice soda like fizz, but juicy instead of cloyingly sweet."
,,,,,Not my favorite Izze flavor,"I love izze sprarkling juice, it is amazing.  My favorite flavors would have to be apple and blueberry.  I was curious to try the grapefuit one though because someone told me it tastes like fresca, and I love fresca.  I tried it and in no way does it taste like fresca, its much milder then fresca and not a very strong grapefruit flavor at all.  I found it to lack in the grapefruit flavor but more of a peach flavor to be honest.  I have not tried the peach one yet but I am guessing it tastes like the grapefruit one:D lol  Oh well, I am just not a big fan of peach drinks.  If you are someone who likes a milder taste of grapefruit then you will love this, its very smooth.  I dont like very smooth so this is not my favorite, I like my drink to have a bite to it.  It is ok, but I will stick to blueberry and apple from now on. The really awesome thing about these drinks though is they are lower calorie then your normal juice, all natural and no added sugar, and each glass bottle has 2 servings of fruit, you cant beat that."
,,,,,Delicious!,"Izze Sparkling Grapefruit Soda is absolutely delicious, even though it is not 100% flavored with grapefruit juice. It's amazing that such a strong, mellow grapefruit taste can come from a mixture of fruit juices. However, the totaly effect is explosively great -- not too tart, not too sweet and wonderfully refreshing.<br /><br />It's perfect on its own own or with a snack because it's not overpowering, it's just the right touch to add to your meals. If you're tired of drinking beverages with ingredients that you can't pronounce, Izze Sparkling Grapefruit Soda is the drink for you.<br /><br />It's a healthy alternative to chemical-laden sodas!"
,,,,,"Excellent, but try to find it elsewhere","This product is excellent. At my local store, they struggle to keep enough on the shelves. It is usually priced at $4.99 for 4 bottles, which is expensive as it is. I would try not to spend more than this."
,,,,,A great healthy alternative to soda pop...,"My teens and their friends drink regular soda pop by the gallon!  They're obviously addicted to the stuff - a very unhealthy habit.<br /><br />I can't drink soda pop myself, it's been 5 years or so since I had one, and so I began searching for a drink that tasted like regular soda pop, but wasn't unhealthy.  I searched high and low for a suitable alternative - and then I found  Izze.<br /><br />I love the fruity, tangy flavor of Izze's sparkling grafefruit soda.  The grapefruit flavor goes well with spicy mexican foods, but it is also great just by itself.<br /><br />My teens love Izze and drink it now just like soda pop!  I'm so happy to know they aren't guzzling down corn syrup and artificial colors and flavors, but instead are enjoying all-natural Izze, with no added sweeetners!<br /><br />If you're looking for a great alternative to regular soda pop - you can't do better than to buy Izze."
,,,,,Amazing! Astounding! This is one delicious drink!,"IZZE is fantastic. I tried it three days ago, and haven't been anywhere without a can or bottle of it since. It could quite possibly be the world's most perfect beverage. Nothing artificial, ingredients that you can pronounce, and a taste you just cannot beat. Slightly tart and slightly sweet, this light, bubbly drink should be experienced by everyone at least once."
,,,,,"Like Fresh Grapefruit Juice, But Better. Lighter, Sweeter, & Refreshingly Fizzy.","I'm not much of a soda drinker, but I enjoy a good natural fruit soda in the summertime. Izze describes their sodas as ""100% Pure Fruit Juice and Sparkling Water"". That's an exaggeration, as there are a few more natural ingredients beside fruit juice and water in these drinks. But the description is apt in that Izze's drinks are more sparkling fruit juices than sodas. They are lightly carbonated, not super-fizzy. And the best of them taste like fresh fruit. The Sparkling Grapefruit will be a fast favorite of grapefruit fans, because it tastes like fresh squeezed pink grapefruit juice, but lighter and a little sweeter. It's a little tart. A little sweet. A little fizzy. Very refreshing. It's like drinking fresh grapefruit juice, only better. There's never any trace of sourness. No refined sugar, artificial ingredients, or caffeine either. 12 fl.oz. glass bottles.<br /><br />Ingredients: sparkling water, grape juice concentrate, grape fruit juice concentrate, lemon juice concentrate, natural flavor, gum acacia (from acacia trees), ester gum, red cabbage extract (color). One serving (which is 8 fl.oz.) contains 10 mg sodium and 25 g total carbs."
,,,,,Best on market!,"If you are a chamomile tea drinker, you will be happy to discover this tea.  The citrus addition makes for a full-bodied but smooth tea.  Definitely the best chamomile tea on the market.  Also, I brew one bag in a coffee maker dedicated to tea only, and get a whole pot out of each bag.  You won't be disappointed in this one."
,,,,,"If you think you don't like herbal tree, think again.","This tea was a gift. We are down to the last two tea bags, and I had been unable to find it. Alas, it was on the find anything site-Amazon. This particular herbal blend doesn't sound particularly appealing, but one taste and you will be hooked. A smooth, complex blend. Just lovely."
,,,,,Their favorite,"Our little chihuahuas are picky eaters. I really don't find canned foods helpful, since they won't eat any that has been put in the refrigerator overnight. These are perfect because we can split a single package and mix it in with the kibble. Even better, when we travel, these are easy to open and carry.<br /><br />Of all of the selections, the beef chicken combo is their favorite! They always gobble this one up right away."
,,,,,Like an indian meal in a stick,"I must be in love if I'm mulling over a 12 pack of big bags for myself. I love the crunch, intense curry flavor, seediness, and the fact they are gluten free. These are one of the more original savory snacks you can find. They're very hard so you need good teeth and I love the substantial curry flavor that is not ""kind of indian"" tasting."
,,,,,delicious gluten free snack,"I just love these - have tried several flavors ..  gives a gluten freer a chance to snack on a crunchy, healthy snack!!"
,,,,,My new favorite snack!!,"I have been snacking on the crackers from this line, for a long time now, and someone suggested that I try these Sticks & Twigs. I love everything about them! I love the crunch and the texture of them, and, of course, I love the taste of them, especially with the curry flavor! They are not only delicious, but they are also very nutricious, with lots of protein and fiber in them. They make the PERFECT snack!"
,,,,,"Tasty, healthy snack","Sticks and Twigs may seem a little pricey compared to regular pretzels, but the bag lasts a long time and the ingredients, like flax seeds, quinoa, chia seeds and curry, are good for you. They are very crunchy, but tasty. For some added protein, I like to dip them in peanut butter."
,,,,,"Organic with Zero Potato Starch, Corn Starch or GMOs","Picked these up on a recent trip...loved the spice!<br /><br />Organic, non-GMO, Vegan, Dairy Free, Wheat Free, Gluten Free, Whole Grain, Kosher, No hydrogenated oils, No trans-fats and contains 550 mg. of omega-3 fatty acids per 1oz serving.  Extremely crunchy and satisfying...using Organic Short Grain Brown Rice, Organic Whole Quinoa, Organic Brown Flax Seeds, Organic Brown Sesame Seeds, Organic Whole Amaranth, Organic Whole Millet, Filtered Water, Sea Salt, Organic Curry Powder, Organic Chia Seeds...and that's all.<br /><br />If you are accustomed to eating healthy, whole foods and have good teeth...you will adore these for snacking."
,,,,,Ugh,"Good quality product, but you would have to REAlly love curry flavor to like these... They are so awful I don't know what to do with them, but I know I won't be eating them.... I'll stick to the plain sea salt ones:)"
,,,,,Sinfully Rich,"I was extremely impressed with the single serve Pecan Pies. I expected a middle of the road product, thought I'd give them a try.<br />  The ratio of filling to crust thickness is perfect. Pie has a rich home baked flavor, and the size is wonderful. 2-Ounces is large enough to enjoy without ruining diet. It's satisfying without being overly sweet.<br />  I will be ordering more next month to give one to each guest to take home after Thanksgiving Dinner."
,,,,,New Holiday Tradition!,"My father lives 3,000 miles from me, and I used to order a pecan pie from Swiss Colony and have it shipped to him for Christmas each year. But when the item was discontinued a few years ago, I had trouble finding another company that could deliver a delicious, homemade pie that was guaranteed to be fresh when it arrived.  I gave Nell Davis a shot last Christmas, and could not have been more pleased.  I missed the deadline to guarantee the order would arrive by Christmas, but sure enough, my father was quite surprised when he got not one, but six mini-pies on Christmas Eve morning. He said they were wonderful and he gobbled down all six in one sitting! I've definitely found my new holiday pie company, thank you Nell Davis!"
,,,,,Gift for a  daughters boyfriend,OK this poor guy begged my daughter to make him my pecan pie and well she is a microwave girl! So for christmass what better way to a man than his stomach.  he now has pies he can pack in his lunch box.  They are sssooooo good.
,,,,,about the product  packaged and taste,"They were packaged so perfect and OMG if there were 100 stars, I would give them 100 stars, they are out of this world.  The crust melts in you mouth and the filling is perfect and delicious and scrumptious, The filling is not chintzy yet not too sweet. I used to make them when I was a kid with my mother for Christmas but they never came out like these.  I bet there is not one comment that is less than 5. They taste just like they look. They are beyond delicious and I  allow myself one or two a day.  If you're hesitating about how good they are, one bite and you'll know yuuuuuuuuuuum!!!!!"
,,,,,Almost no detectable flavor,"Unfortunately I am completely disappointed with this product. I have an above-average sense of smell, but this extract has hardly any detectable flavor in the bottle and none whatsoever once added to food. Perhaps I received part of a faulty batch? The seller is letting me return the bottle, but is requiring that I pay for shipping again, so I would be very unlikely to order from them again."
,,,,,Quite disappointing,Lacks the flavor I was hoping for and the price was a bit high for the satisfaction level.  I won't be ordering this again.  Live and learn.
,,,,,BEST Popcorn we've EVER used!,"We only like WHITE popcorn, and the only grocery store option where we live is Jolly Time, which is not bad.  For fun, we started ordering various white popcorns online, and THIS is BY FAR the VERY BEST white popcorn!!  Wish it were a little less expensive, but we've decided that it really is THAT much better than others.  We are now Snappy white popcorn snobs!  :)"
,,,,,Great Popcorn,"Snappy White Popcorn is excellent.  It pops up nicely, and has a great texture. It is extremely fresh. As for taste it is 100 times better than the store brands. (IMO) Give it a try."
,,,,,Snappy White Popcorn,"Although the kernels may not be as large and fluffy when popped, we really enjoyed our first pop. Has a great flavor and consistency.<br />We recommend using a hot air popper over a microwave. We had very few no-pops."
,,,,,Delicious!,"I've always bought yellow popcorn, but after reading the reviews for Snappy white I decided to give it a try. It's tender and delicious! I'll be ordering more, it's now my favorite popcorn."
,,,,,You must try this popcorn,"I purchased a hot air popcorn popper because my kids love popcorn, and it's a healthy snack.<br /><br />I 'accidentally' ordered the white popcorn, having no idea what I was doing, and I have to say that no other popcorn compares. We went through the entire container. When I re-ordered, I decided to try the regular yellow popcorn, and it just wasn't the same. If I could describe the difference, I would say that yellow popcorn tastes 'stale' in comparison. The white popcorn tastes crisper and more fresh.<br /><br />As for the flavor, well, we use Kernel Seasons seasoning generously, so we don't taste much more than the cheddar cheese :)<br /><br />I'm considering giving the rest of this yellow popcorn tub away so I have an excuse to buy another tub of the white popcorn.<br /><br />For how we eat it, this popcorn is absolutely the best!<br /><br />NOTE: I also recommend the Misto oil spray. We use this and Kernel seasons as a healthy alternative to butter."
,,,,,Great white popcorn!!!!!!,"Just ate my first batch and it's as good as any white popcorn I have had. I encountered difficulty obtaining white popcorn from grocery stores and was reduced to eating the horrible yellow type. Luckily I decided to shop this site, and I could not be more pleased. You will not be disappointed.<br /><br />Next time I will order two four-pound jars plus the Snappy Popcorn White Cheddar Shaker, and get free shipping for a purchase over $25 - which is important because the shipping charges are significant."
,,,,,Perfect Popcorn,"Snappy's White Popcorn is perfect.  It's hulless, tiny, tender and crunchy when popped, and it always pops.  We keep it in the freezer so it's always fresh, and more importantly, ALWAYS HERE when we want some. As midwesterners, we know corn, okay?  And this is the best!"
,,,,,Snappy White Popcorn,I tried thhis popcorn in a the Presto Poplite Air Popcorn machine.  the instructions were easy and the results were very gratifying.  I added sea salt and a little Olive oil.  The measuring container made 5 quarts.  I just  couldn't stop eating it.  Simply delicious.
,,,,,Fresh,"This popcorn leaves very few old maids. It's fresh, so the kernels pop as bi as they should (unlike some other brands I've purchased). My only criticism is that there are lots of hulls. But of the three brands of popcorn I've recently bough for use in my microwave popcorn popper, it's the best."
,,,,,Great popcorn,"I am on my second 4 lb canister of this.  The popcorn has a good yield, few unpopped kernals, similar to popcorn from the grocery store.  The popped kernals are larger than normal for most white popcorn.<br /><br />I have mild IBS and I find white popcorn is easier on my digestive track versus yellow (I think because the shells are thinner and softer), this popcorn follows the trend for me and I can consume popcorn every day when I am in a popcorn mood."
,,,,,Felt a little silly ordering this on line,"For my daughter's birthday I ordered her a Stir Crazy popcorn maker.  I was busy and knew I didn't have time to run to the grocery store.  I ordered the popcorn on line too.  We made the popcorn using organic coconut oil.  We were shocked to see almost every kernel popped.  1/2 cup and the popper was full.  The popcorn was big and fluffy.  The flavor was good.  The first time we put butter and salt on it.  The second time just salt and it was great!  We placed it in baggies and took it to the movies.  Okay - so maybe that sounds a bit cheap however our popcorn was fresh, tasty, and healthy as compared to the movie theater popcorn."
,,,,,Good Quality,"We are white popcorn enthusiasts, and were very pleased with this product.  Large, tender kernels of poped corn.  Used an electric, self stirring poper.  Worth the cost."
,,,,,Great popcorn and a great value.,Snappy white popcorn is one of the best popcorn I have ever tried. Very tasty and most every kernel pops every time.
,,,,,Pops to the last kernel,"I was sick of Microwave popcorn so I ordered this, hoping it would take me back to the popcorn I loved in years past. That it did. Almost every kernel pops and with butter, I'm happy!<br />I get my  oil hot first and pop about a third of a cup of corn each time; it pops quickly.  Just be there to get it into a bowl as soon as the popping stops or it will burn."
,,,,,It is great popcorrn,"I love this brand (I ordered 1st via Amazon). Great, fluffy corn, with very few un-popped kernels in my hot air popper. Didn't try the old-fashioned fry-pan method, but expect similar results. Definitely will buy again when needed."
,,,,,Popcorn,VERY good popcorn!  I believe even better than Orville's brand.  A little on the expensive side but you do get a lot of popcorn.
,,,,,Great,"I bought this with the Presto 04830 PowerPop Microwave Multi-Popper back in July and have been very, very pleased.  Almost no kernels left in the bottom and fluffy, large popcorn.  Getting ready to reorder so I thought I would pass it on.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00005IBXK"">Presto 04830 PowerPop Microwave Multi-Popper</a>"
,,,,,Beats Walley World!,My sister turned me on to White Popcorn over yellow popcorn.<br /><br />She said it was more tender however did not pop as large.<br /><br />Guess she had some store bought stuff.<br /><br />I put the same amount in as Walley World yellow popcorn and it blew the lid off the pot!<br /><br />I'm a convert to this brand of white popcorn!
,,,,,My New Favorite Popcorn,"This popcorn pops up light, fluffy, and crunchy.  I have been using Orville Redenbacher White Popcorn, but this is slightly less expensive and very tasty and fresh.  My popcorn method is as follows:<br />Use a Westbend Stir Crazy 6 Qt. popper.  It is the best because it gets hot quickly without smoking or burning the corn.<br />Then use 2 Tablespoons of olive oil, Flavacol to taste (I use about a teaspoon).  Put the oil and Flavacol in the popper and plug it in.  Add approximately 3/4 cup of Snappy White Popcorn.  When the popping stops enjoy a large batch of great popcorn with very little fat, and what fat there is will be monosaturated.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00004RC6R"">West Bend 82306 Stir Crazy 6-Quart Electric Popcorn Popper</a><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004W8LT10"">Gold Medal Prod. 2045 Flavacol Seasoning Popcorn Salt 35oz.</a>"
,,,,,Good Popcorn,We only like white popcorn and since it's hard to find in the grocery store it's great to order this.  It was yummy and plentiful!  Recommend!
,,,,,Pretty good stuff,"Good: Big, crisp, snowy-white kernels with few duds. Pops quickly, 25% faster than name-brand yellow corn in the same microwave and popper.  Decent price and package size - enough to last awhile; not so much as to go stale before it runs out.<br /><br />Bad: Almost tasteless.  Butter and salt are not optional.<br /><br />Orville Redenbacher still leads the pack, but this stuff is pretty good and costs a LOT less.  Four stars; would have been five if it were even a little less bland."
,,,,,No longer a skeptic,"I ordered several kinds of highly-rated popcorn from Amazon at one time.  I admit I was skeptical of some of the rave reviews.  Well the Snappy white popcorn arrived first so I tried it immediately.  I actually measured (I usually just eye-ball it) 3 T canola oil, 1/3 cup Snappy popcorn and 1/3 tsp Flavacol flavored salt.  I put the oil and Flavacol in my trusty Whirly-pop popper and swirled to distribute the Flavacol.  I then added the popcorn.  It popped REALLY quickly, snowy white and fluffy.  It was divine.  Tender, not greasy or chewy and so flavorful.  I will update this post when I try the other brands I ordered to let you know how it stacks up.  Oh, and I had ONE kernel that didn't pop!"
,,,,,LARGE WHITE TASTY AND HULLESS IOWA POPCORN,"This is the wondeful white popcorn we ate in Iowa years ago! I am so glad to find it. And what a great price too!<br />I got it today and popped some right away. I used the microwave popcorn bowl I bought from Amazon, put a tablespoonful of extra virgin olive oil and two tablespoonsful of the popcorn in the bowl.<br />I placed the bowl, with lid on, in the MW and turned it on for 1 minute and then pushed the popcorn button to pop it.<br />After moving the popped corn to another bowl I shook the shaker with the popcorn seasoning several times and oh what a delicious hulless treat! The hulls seem to have vanished during the popping. I felt nor found any.<br />AND ALL OF THE ITEMS I USED, INCLUDING THE MICROWAVE, I BOUGHT FROM AMAZON."
,,,,,Returning Customer!,This is great popcorn!!!  I just purchased a second batch.  I never had a problem w/a ton of kernels left in my air popper or many hulls.  As long as this is being produced and sold I will be a buyer!<br /><br />The only con I have is that the only seal on the canister is a small piece of tape on the lid/canister.  I was surprised to not see some type of freshness seal like you would see on a ketchup bottle.  Surprisingly though I had no issues with humidity effecting the corn (maybe because I'm in a dryer climate?).
,,,,,Works great with Microwave Popper,"I ordered this popping corn after being disappointed with the local big box store selection-two brands.  One of them tasted chalky like styrofoam and its claim was larger popped kernels.  No taste.<br /><br />I mainly use this popcorn with one of those plastic microwave popping bowls.  I noticed that 1/3 cup yields more cooked popcorn than two other brands I have tried.  It kept on popping after my usual 2 minute and 20 second routine.  When using microwave poppers, you tend to get some burnt kernels if you extend the cooking time for maximum popped corn.  The snappy burnt kernels didn't taste as bad as other brands.<br /><br />This white popcorn tasted great with canola oil and even better when popped with coconut oil."
,,,,,The Best!,This is the best white popcorn yet! I've tried the others sold on Amazon & there's no comparison. It was fluffy & flavorful & almost every kernel popped!(how often can you say that?) I've already ordered more so I won't run out.
,,,,,Fluffy white popcorn,"Good product.  Almost all the popcorn pops up fluffy and snow white.  With our air popper, great snack with few calories.  Taste great!"
,,,,,Disappointed - Tough Kernals,"All of the positive reviews led me to believe this popcorn was going to be really great. Truth is, I am disappointed. The popcorn kernels are tough, chewy and lack any great corn taste. I want popcorn that snaps when you bite into it.  I will go back to buying the premium Orville Redenbacher's brand at my local grocery."
,,,,,Lots of unpopped kernels!,"So far I'm not impressed with this popcorn. It's tender when popped, but it's really annoying how much doesn't pop. I'm going to add a little water and then let it sit, closed up, for a while and see if that helps. As of right now, I wouldn't buy this popcorn again."
,,,,,Disappointing,"These are supposed to be cherry and brandy filled chocolates. If they contain brandy, it is too subtle for me to detect. A clue to the cause may be the stickiness of the package and the cracks in the candies. It appears they were mistreated at some point and may have leaked. But the box they came in shows no damage. A friend speculated that airline decompression burst them. Maybe, but other imported chocolates don't suffer this problem.<br /><br />I should also mention that the chocolate tastes a little bit dusty on the outside.<br /><br />I can't really recommend these Laroshell candies. There are other brands which are quite good."
,,,,,The Best Cheese Spread you'll ever eat!,"If you enjoy a rich flavored cheddar cheese with a bite of horseradish, I would give this a try. It was a instant party favorite when I brought this and crackers to friends house.  I would recommend this to anyone!"
,,,,,"Onion-Garlic Dry Roasted Soy Nuts -- OK, but not great!","I enjoyed the dry roasted part, but the Onion-Garlic combination was a little overwhelming for me.  I thought that they would be a little more ""toasted"" than they were.  The flavor was more of an after taste and my wife shied away from my kisses after I ate them -- bummer!  I am looking for something else."
,,,,,Organic Fresh & Crunchy,"Love these Soy Nuts, especially the garlic and onion blend!!!!  Perfect for taking to a party or just snacking on while on the go.  Been happy with every product from Truson."
,,,,,Love the onion garlic,"The onion garlic soy nuts are my favorite.  They add a great hit of flavor to salads, and the added bonus is they're good for you."
,,,,,Great garlic flavor,"I like the onion garlic flavor.  It really tastes good, very fresh and it is much healthier for you than other non organic soy nuts. I like to add them to my salads instead of croutons."
,,,,,Holiday treat,This is a very good gingerbread mix. Lots of flavor and easy to make. It's probably a bit overpriced but I was having alot of difficulty finding any gingerbread mix in the grocery store. I use this mix to make gingerbread muffins with diced pears and dried cranberries. I'll purchase another six boxes when I run out of mix. A good buy and good product.
,,,,,quick glucose boost with no sticky pockets!,"This packaging is awesome - my main annoyance with regular Jolly Ranchers is that if you keep them in your pocket, they will melt and stick to the wrapper and eventually stick to your pocket. Not delicious. This packaging completely fixes all that - it's the size of a pack of gum, and the candies don't stick to anything!<br /><br />Clearly not the healthiest thing to eat, but if you're on your feet all day long and often find yourself without a meal for 8+hours, these could be a convenient quick fix for when you start to feel all weird and wobbly and hypoglycemic.<br /><br />Totally no nutrition in these, but they are GREAT for when you need a bit of glucose boost."
,,,,,"Took some getting used to, but I love them now.","These crackers are made from whole flax seeds so they aren't like your usual chip or cracker.  Some people I've shared them with don't care for them at all, but some loved them.  I am on a raw food diet, and I use them as chips to eat with guacamole or or other raw dips.  Raw meals sometimes take a lot of advance preparation and when you're really hungry, these will fill you up fast!  Just make sure you drink a lot of water and don't eat too many at once.  I personally liked all the flavors.  The onion was just a bit strong for some, but I thought it was ok.  Will definitely be buying again."
,,,,,LOVE and hate in same family,"LOVE them!! I love knowing how much better this is for me than potato chips or typical crackers. I am focused on eating nutrient dense food and am avoiding putting into my mouth non-food items for entertainment only. I love crunchy foods and this is great. The flavors are all good except don't like the sweet maple and cinn. flavor as much.<br />My family doesnt like them because they are not evolved yet, immature taste buds is all I can say at this point. Start your babies off early and you won't have to erase habits of eating NON food for fun."
,,,,,"Good for low-carbing, nice strong flavors","I got these because I'm on a low-carb, high-fat diet and was wanting something high-fiber that also packed a bunch of omega 3s. These fit the bill pretty perfectly! The flavors aren't all winners, but they're all really strongly flavored which is fantastic for a crispy snack. I like the flavors of these more than I like the flavors of potato chips, honestly.<br /><br />They don't strike me as slimy when you chew them, but your mileage may vary - I mean, yeah, the texture is a bit odd (imagine chewing a bunch of sesame seeds, similar kind of texture) and they do get stuck in your teeth, but hey - that's flax seeds for you. If you don't like (or tolerate) the texture of flaxseeds, there's nothing these crackers can really do for you.<br /><br />The flavors: My favorite is the Mexican flavor, hands-down. A close second is the hemp (rosemary! nom nom!) and the cinnamon maple (higher-carb, but only barely. Really cinnamony). I'm not really a fan of the onion garlic and italian... I love garlic, but it's just too much. The original flavor is icky, it just tastes like soy sauce and flax. Meh. I like soy sauce, but it's not really an ideal flavor for crackers! If you like Japanese rice crackers you might like that flavor.<br /><br />I think the cinnamon maple would probably be a fantastic flavor to spread nut butters on (chocolate almond butter, almond butter, peanut butter, whatever)."
,,,,,Flackers,These crackers are incredible. Healthy and tasty - you can't go wrong. The Italian and Mexican Harvest are my favorites. The cinnamon are great for breakfast with yogurt. Buying the six pack allowed me to taste all to see which ones I would order again.
,,,,,"I like the idea of these, but. . .","I do like the idea of these crackers for gluten free eating, but I can't bring myself to enjoy them. I bought the 6-pack variety and have tried the Maple Cinnamon and the Onion Garlic. I generally like flax, but these just aren't setting well with me even when I use them as a carrier for dips. I feel I wasted my money. I'll probably give the unopened packs to a friend's family that are gluten free."
,,,,,Tasty buy slimy,"The flavors are really good but the crackers get a bit slimy as you chew them. If that doesn't bother you, then they're a great low-carb snack."
,,,,,Love mustard but this flavor is too mild for my taste,"I loved the Foods Alive garlic and onion flavor flax crackers.  When I finished my entire order of 6 bags, I decided to try the Mustard flavor since I love all mustards on almost everything.  Well...I just finished my first bag of it last night and it's ok - Organic, Crisp & fresh for sure.  But doesn't compare to the strong & powerful garlic & onion flavor.  Maybe the mustard is too mild on my palate.  But I just thought the flavor was too bland for my taste.<br /><br />If you like a mild mustard & always wanted to try organic flax crackers made with pure ingredients & no fillers or chemicals, then this flavor is for you and I would recommend that you try it."
,,,,,Quality Nut Butters,Nuttzo makes great nut butters. Their chocolate version is like Nutella should be--less sugar and other crap. Delicious and super-nutritious.
,,,,,took forever,I bought a bottle of tapatio hot sauce for my friend to have it shipped over to her in the east coast. The order said it'd take 5 business days. It ended up taking over 3 weeks
,,,,,Great Tea but need a filter!,I love this tea and have no complaints!!!  I just want to comment on how the tea is packaged.  It comes loose in little plastic baggies so if you want to use it you have to have some sort of filter.  We have an iced tea maker and used a cone coffee filter which works just fine.  I did buy a 2 inch tea ball but the loose tea just falls right through it so I guess I didn't buy the right thing.
,,,,,GOOD TEA use french press to filter,Some people mentioned the loose tea is difficult to filter.<br /><br />USE A FRENCH PRESS made for coffee is a good option - dilute concentrate to desire strength. My favorite flavors are: Mango and Passion Fruit.
,,,,,Just like A.Js!,My whole family is addicted to this tea.  We make it in our Mr. Coffee Iced Tea Maker - it's fabulous!
,,,,,Variety Pack is Yummy,"We are big fans of the Passion Fruit Tea but wanted to try something different. I like all of the flavors but the blackberry is my fave for a change of pace, still got to have the passion fruit as the go to tea though. Everyone raves about how good this stuff is. I can't make enough."
,,,,,China mist is the best tea,"Many food establishments serve Chna Mista tea and I love<br />the flavor, I was happy to be able to purchase it on Amazon.<br />I make it my iced tea maker it's so easy and has a great<br />taste with less caffeine. Try it you will love it too."
,,,,,Good value,"Decent every-day loose-leaf tea. The China Mist brand is good, the only downside is some of the tea is pulverized too fine, so there is sediment in the tea. I recommend letting the tea settle before serving. China Mist is not extremely high-quality, just a nice every-day tea that tastes fine. The sample pack gives you a chance to try some variety, and it lasts a while."
,,,,,Almost perfect!,"This is a dual review, as it has to be.  The first part covers the delicious, needs-nothing-else China Mist iced tea varieties included in this box.  Each of 24 packets contains four ounces of the world's choicest tea leaves, with stellar flavorings mixed in (dried, crushed mango; dried, crushed passion fruit; dried, crushed raspberry; pure, strong tea).<br /><br />My first experience with it was at a restaurant where our daughter works.  She said, Order the iced tea, Dad, you won't need to put any sugar or lemon or anything into it (always looking out for my diabetes).  It was fantastic, nearly the highlight of my meal, which itself was outstanding.  I asked the manager if he could share the tea secret:  Well, we use the industry's best, China Mist!  Everybody says it's the best they've had!  Indeed.<br /><br />The flavor was, if you'll pardon me, complex and could be rated as you would a nice wine--action, hints of this or that, a new rush at the end of your taste cycle.  It made me think what I'd been missing; this tasted like what the British must drink, the full-bodied teas they enjoy.  Apparently Americans add as much extra water to our tea as we do to our coffee (What the French hear when we order a java over there:  I'll have coffee, with a cup of water on top).<br /><br />The second part of the review concerns our Hamilton Beach iced tea machine.  We add the recommend water and ice cubes, and the brewing cycle indeed does take only 10 minutes.  The tea is already ice cold.  It may be the difference between a home-level heat limit, or maybe the fact that the water is not ""pressured"" over the tea as much as it might be in a commercial machine, or maybe the commercial machines are much better insulated around the steeping container.  Our Hamilton Beach unit made a weaker tea than I would have liked; we'll reduce the amount of water from now on and see what that does.  In fairness, the Bamilton Beach Iced Tea make was $22.49; commercial models are $600 or more, but they brew their stronger teas in only 8 (versus 10) minutes.  A wildly expensive two minutes."
,,,,,Excellent product,I purchased this product mainly to try out the different flavors of tea. When I find the flavor I like I will probably buy a case of it. China mist tea taste great. As for those who have problems with tea leaves getting in the tea don't worry. I went to the local supermarket (HEB in Texas) and found empty tea bags in a box for about $5.They work great. Fill with tea and fold top and staple.
,,,,,Great taste...pain to strain,You know I really do love this product. I wish I could give the tea 5 stars because it really does brew up a very pleasant tasting iced tea that needs little sugar or other embellishments. The problem is it's loose and when you  are trying to make a big jug of it with two packets of tea it is a huge mess to strain. And ordinary double mesh strainer is not fine enough. I don't have coffee strainers in the house so I had to line a mess strainer with paper towels and it took forever to strain. But when I strained it with just my mesh strainer there was a ton of tea in the jug. I wish the variety pack came pre-bagged like the smaller boxes of tea do.
,,,,,More like pancake syrup.,I bought this item thinking it might be equivilent to Starbucks or Davinci Hazelnut syrup but it's not. At first it tastes like Hazelnut then you get the flavor of cheap pancake syrup followed by an aftertaste that can best be described as tasting stale. The price is only slightly better than what I can get the Davinci Brand at Sam's club but the quality is far lower in my opinion. For hazelnut fans I suggest avoiding this particular brand.
,,,,,1 STAR TO MUCH!,I'm sorry I bought this brand. It leaves a lousy after taste in your mouth.No wonder Amazon is giving .99cent shipping on this item. STAY AWAY!!! AVOID!!!!
,,,,,Mediocre,"The flavor of Big Train Hazelnut is not significant. One has to add a lot to have a flavor impact. Of the three Big Train flavors I purchased (including Vanilla and Irish Creme), Hazelnut is the least satisfactory. (Vanilla's a little better; Irish Creme is best--I gave that one 4 stars)."
,,,,,Versatile addition to kitchen favorites,"I use this syrup in tea, coffee and over cut up fruit and ice cream.I buy unflavored creamer and add this to it. Much cheaper alternative to pre-flavored coffee creamer."
,,,,,Flavorful and Natural Garrotxa Goat Cheese,"I love cheese in general. I've had lots of European cheeses, and this one is OUTSTANDING.<br /><br />The texture is a bit hard, not creamy as French cheeses; and the flavor is full and rich. Great to serve with some bread and of course, some wine. It is great with salads as well, you won't need any dressing since the cheese is enough a good flavor enhancer by itself.<br /><br />I have shared it with many guests and they ALL love it. It's not salty like Cheddar and smoked cheeses, it's more of a refined goat-milky flavor.<br /><br />It's always a Success!"
,,,,,Worth the shipping,"So i had this cheese on my mind ever since trying it at a restaurant in SF.  This was one of those things that i though when Im bored and want to burn money on shipping i would order.  Is it worth it?  Yes if you are a cheese fan,  goes great with any wine).  Not so much if you are being curious."
,,,,,"Festival doesn't tell us what they mean by ""Fresh Pack""","Your guess is as good as mine regarding what Festival means when they claim that their canned shiitake slices are ""Fresh Pack.""  On a separate subject:  Unlike MW Polar brand of canned sliced shiitake, Festival brand does not add sesame oil, which would make the mushrooms taste better but at the expense of adding unwanted calories from the ""bad"" polyunsaturated fatty acid, linoleic acid (omega-6), which is the only kind of polyunsaturated fat contained in sesame oil."
,,,,,Really good gravy!,I tried this at first as a gluten-free alternative to cream of mushroom soup.  Turns out its really good!  Modified my MILs swedish meatballs recipe using this sauce as the base.  Also served it with shitakes over rice.  Very versatile and tasty! And its great that the ingredients don't read like an industrial compound.
,,,,,Have a spot of tea !,"I seem to have entered my green tea ""wave"".<br />After years of only black tea, then white, oolong and green tea, I have discovered the loose fruit flavored green tea mixes sold by Teavana, which are delightful. Teavana makes tea drinking a pleasure with all the available accoutrements and utensils.<br /><br />This green tea mix is flavored with apple pieces, hibiscus flowers, rosehip peels, blackberries, and blackberry flavoring, raspberries, plum pieces, cactus blossoms and spearmint and is called Blackberry Mojito.<br /><br />Fruitmixes are nothing new in the tea world, but Teavana's product is most fresh in the vacuum sealed pouches and has a wonderfully delicious fruity fragrance. However as an infusion, I found its slight astringent tartness somewhat objectionable, which most likely stems from the rosehips peel. Perhaps other people prefer this. If compared to the Lipton fruit flavored green and white tea bags, which are available now, and look like little pyramids, I have to say that I do prefer their taste, but as a potpourri Blackberry Mojito is the winner."
,,,,,Seasoned well,"I made the 10 bean soup with a few modifications.  I added carrots, onions, celery, and potatoes.  However, I did not have to adjust the seasoning.  This is not a bland soup.  Excellent!  I also gave Women's Bean soups, dips, and salsas to my extended family for Christmas.  Everyone loved the gift- it simplified my shopping, and I felt like I was helping those who really need the help."
,,,,,10 bean soup,"Last night they predicted an ice storm and I was going to have the day off for MLK, so I knew that this was the day to make soup.  This one is excellent!  My only addition to the recipe was a ham bone and about a cup of rice.  It made a great, satisfying supper.  Pat"
,,,,,Women's Bean Project - Great Gift Idea,"I did not purchase this but received it as a Christmas gift.  It was wonderful!  My husband actually made the soup.  He followed the directions, added some ham and it was soup!  He did say that the beans seemed to get done quicker that he thought.  He would not presoak them as suggested.  It's a great gift that not only gives to the recipient but helps women in need as well.  I would highly recommend it and will be purchasing some myself!"
,,,,,"Most enjoyable Winter's treat ""Bean Soup.""","If there is one good thing about a cold Winter's day it is hot soup. The Women's Bean Project provided me with one of the best and it is good for me too. How often can we do something that is good for us and so enjoyable at the same time?<br />I have told all of my friends about it and I hope they will, in turn,spread the word so that the women of the Bean Project are kept busy and prosper."
,,,,,Best Bean Soup in a Bag,This soup has fantastic flavor. I did not add the canned tomatoes but I did add all the extra vegetables in the my fridge.
,,,,,Decent tasting,"This coffee tastes pretty good, and I like the fact that it's organic (coffee has one of he highest rates of pesticides).  However, each time I use Subscribe & Save, unfortunately, the price seems to get raised substantially a few weeks later, which is why I had to cancel my subscription to this."
,,,,,Love me some stevia!,Hooray for an all natural sweetner! Say goodbye to sugar and chemical based sweetners and get your hands on this stevia!
,,,,,Super Sweet!,"My father-in-law bought some for me to try. Love it! Very sweet. NO aftertaste. Wonderful all-natural sweetener. My new choice, replacing all those other artificial packets I used to use."
,,,,,A beautiful vinegar,"I bought this vinegar along with 2 others for my father for Christmas. I wish they could have all been shipped together, but they went separately. Good vinegar though."
,,,,,"Decent, but not great","When I first started to use IAMS Savory Sauce, my dogs loved it. After a few weeks, they don't seem to care too much for it anymore. They still get a little drizzle in their kibble every once in a while, and will eventually eat it when they are hungry, but they don't consider it to be a treat anymore. I still buy it once in a blue moon when it is on sale because of it contains vitamins and its decently priced, and low calorie. One big negative I have noticed about it is that their face is getting dirty from it. They are white dogs and this product tends to cause increased tear and around-the-mouth stains. I used to buy all different flavors of IAMS Savory Sauce, buy my groomer told me the chicken flavor is best as the beef and pork based flavors can cause an even worse increase in face staining. VitaGravy is a similar product that contains more vitamins, so if your must have some sort of gravy, I recommend VitaGravy a bit more. Or you can also just mix in some warm water with your dog food and let it sit for a bit before you feed it to your dog. This creates a ""gravy"" like texture and aroma that most dogs love. Not the greatest idea if your dog has dental issues, but a great free solution for picky eaters."
,,,,,Nice,"MY wife had some white balsamic from a store in Boston and loved it. So, I figured I'd get her some for Xmas; but I couldn't get to Boston! This product and seller gave me a good alternative. It is a fantastic product and she loves it. We use it with lemon or other infused olive oils on salad or what have you. NICE!"
,,,,,Pumpkin Spice Ground,"Very disappointed, not much pumpkin or spice, just pretty close to plain old coffee.  I was hoping for something like they have at Tim Horton's but its not even close."
,,,,,Purchased chamomile,Excellent product. Exactly what they said it would be. Superior chamomile from what I have ordered before from other companies. Excellent value for the price.
,,,,,Delicioso !!,"I am not a coffee purist...but I am addicted.  I've dabbled in the flavorings & coffee-wannabe's, and this is by far my favorite.  I usually put 1 teaspoonful of instant coffee with three regular spoonfuls of Vanilla Caramel Latte, just so I have an extra afternoon shot of energy.  Extra bonus - when you pour the hot water over the mixture, it hisses & purrs :)"
,,,,,Wife loves the stuff,"Though it's hardly real coffee, my wife loves this stuff.  She says it's like having hot caramel ice cream in a cup.  Amazon's 4-pk price is much better than store price...if it can be found in a store."
,,,,,very nice drink,"Nice and smooth. Hopefully, GF or Maxwell will not discontinue this flavor like they have my other two. They losing my business!"
,,,,,amyjon,Love this flavor!  I make mine with vanilla soy milk and 1% milk.  Very nice!  Almost like a dessert!
,,,,,Yum,"This is so soothing, smooth, & rich! Love this as my afternoon treat! GF does have a history of discontinuing great favors, I hope this one sticks around. (Kahlua, White Chocolate to name a couple!)"
,,,,,My dog loves 'em,"We have a little shih tzu who absolutely loves Cesar Softies dog treats.  We have tried different flavors, but she seems to enjoy the Grilled Chicken Flavor the most.  They are soft enough to break in half, and that is more than enough to satisfy a little dog's yearning for a reward."
,,,,,MY PUPPIES LOVE THESE TREATS!!!,"I HAVE SO MUCH FUN WATCHING MY PUPPIES ASKING FOR THIS CHICKEN TREATS. THEY GO CRAZY WHEN I SHOW THEM THE BLUE PACKAGE. THESE TREATS ARE SMALL, EASY TO EAT AND DOES NOT HAVE A BAD SMELL. I RECOMMEND IT, YOUR PUPPIES WILL BE HAPPY."
,,,,,great treat for dogs,I used this treat as training reward and my dog loves it. easy to break into smaller pieces. will buy again
,,,,,Cesar treats,"My Westie - like the picture on the package - loves these treats!  They are the perfect size for a treat or reward and even look cute...we call them<br />""puppy paws"" treats!  Good texture - no mess!  Smell not attractive to humans - but good to a dog!"
,,,,,Good Value for Great Treats,"The price is very good compared to any retail outlet available to me.  Came in a simple plastic bag, which I plopped in the freezer.  We can pull out a bag, and have fresh treats for our little guy who so richly deserves and loves them."
,,,,,Dog Treats,My dogs love the Cesar's softies.  Get best price from this site.  The dog's are a bit picky about their treats and this one is great!  Thanks.
,,,,,Rewarding treats,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003DIIZ9O"">Cesar Softies Grilled Chicken Flavor Dog Treat, 6.7-Ounce Bags (Pack of 6)</a><br />My two little Dachshund boys are giving these treats 5 stars.<br />After their evening walk they head straight for the pantry and impatiently wait for me to open the door so that they may have their treats (2 each) as a reward for being good."
,,,,,DANDY CAN'T GET ENOUGH F THEM,"I HAVE A COTON DE TULEAR...I KNOW...WHAT IS THAT??? THEY'RE FROM MADAGASCAR...QUITE BEAUTIFUL,.VERY SPOILED (OF COURSE) & VERY FINICKY...HE JUST LOVES THESE TREATS"
,,,,,Natures Logic Venisen,This is The best dog food their is because everything is very. Digestible and when the dog does digest it all digested because they use all the nutrition from it. So it is healther and the best out their far as I'm think
,,,,,Best Dog Food Ever!,I've used Natures Logic Dog Food for about a year.  The difference in my dogs is impressive.  Their coats are like silk.  What a wonderful product!
,,,,,Coffee Masters Coffee,This brand of coffee is excellent; you can really taste the flavors unlike many store bought flavored coffees I have tried. I like the individual packets as they stay fresh longer and I just use what I need out of the packet so it lasts a long time. I would highly recommend this coffee; it's worth the price!!!
,,,,,"Delicious, flavorful, big bang for your buck!!","Highly recommend this brand of coffee for the beginner and seasoned coffee drinker. I dont know how they do it, but these pre-packaged sacks can actually make 2 pots of 8-cup coffee. The flavor is slightly bold, but smooth as ever. I actually dont even like to use cream or sugar with this flavor. You can taste the flavors of butter, rum, coconut right in the cup. Smells incredible as its brewing. However, I personally use a coffee press and the flavor comes through even stronger!! Again, highly recommended, no cons, you will definitely enjoy this over the $6 tourist coffee. Plus this saves you money. TRY IT TRY IT TRY IT!!!<br /><br />P.S. I also highly recommend the Almond Amaretto, Caramel Kiss, and Butter Pecan. ENJOY!"
,,,,,I hate flavored Coffee!,"I hate flavored coffee, unless it is flavored with dark rum!  This coffee is awesome.  I got a variety pack of these potful packs and there were ony 3 of 20 that I liked.  This is the only one I reordered."
,,,,,yummy,If you like flavored coffee this is one  you must try.<br />Rich taste but not strong.<br />Smells wonderful. So good you will want to stay home and SIP on it all day.
,,,,,Mmmmmmmm good,Jamacian me crazy is sooo good. My husband who normally adds cream to disguise the bitterness drinks it without cream . Let my mom and cousin try it and they too love it!  Definitely worth trying.
,,,,,Best marinade for Fried Turkey Ever,"This is the best marinade to inject in a Fried Turkey EVER made!  You don't have to add anything of your own (maybe a little olive oil, but that's all).  Plus there is a shaker mix you can buy to sprinkle on the top of the turkey, BUT this marinade can be injected to make a tender, juicy fried turkey.  We LOVED it!"
,,,,,Delicious! Try these before buying other brands,"If you have tried pumpkin seeds in the past chances are they have been heavily salted, seasoned and deprived of most nutritional value...or had the taste and consistency of styrofoam. Fortunately, neither description applies to these. They are indeed raw but removed from the hull for easy eating. No added salt or other nuisance chemicals - just delicious and nutritious snack. Mix with raisins and/or sunflower seeds for a healthy snack rich in zinc/other vital nutrition or use with breads, cereals and flavor for your favorite recipe."
,,,,,the best pumkin seeds,"Red mill's pumkin seeds are simply the best! Other seeds or ""pepitas"" don't come even close. Red mill's seeds are crunchy and very tasty. They are product of the U.S., not China like most pepitas. Well worth the price!"
,,,,,munch and be healthy,"Usually, healthy food is hard to swallow. Not these, fresh, crunchy, delicious pumpkin seeds. I switched from potato chips and my wife tells me they are good for the prostate. What do I know? I'm taking her word for it."
,,,,,Versatile,"I grind these seeds up in a coffee grinder & give them to my dogs.  They are a natural dewormer, & add good fiber to their diet.  We've sauteed them with some seasonings in a pan & the kids will eat them, they taste similar to sunflower seeds.  You can also put them in the oven, or eat them raw.  The seeds are good quality, you do have to either freeze or refrigerate them to keep them fresh.  Pretty expensive though.."
,,,,,taste good,"I only ever had pumpkin seeds before in cereal, in small amounts.  These are great; just add them to Bob's granola, or yogurt; even just plain by the handful, they are great."
,,,,,The Best,Love Bob's Redmill the best of the best. Pay a little more than the other guys but all american and employee owned!!! Pumpking seeds are high on the calorie chart so just a teaspoon at a time!!
,,,,,Very good flavor;  extremely nutritious; worth the price,"These raw shelled pumpkin seed kernels actually have a slight pumpkin flavor which I assume indicates that they are fresh, unlike the store bought (H-E-B) raw kernels that were pretty bland. They are also extremely nutritious: high in iron, protein and fiber. Actually, pumpkin seed kernels have four times the iron and about 25% more protein than beef per 100 gram. The price produces somewhat of a sticker shock, though, at over seven bucks per pound; however, considering all of the fiber and nutrients, I believe they are well worth the price. Bob's Red Mill has the nutrition facts displayed on his web site. I highly recommend these pumpkin kernels because they taste great and, as you can from the facts below, are at the top of the nutrition chart.<br /><br />USDA nutrition content, Seeds, pumpkin and squash seed kernels, dried<br />Protein 33.97%<br />Fiber, total dietary 15.79%<br />Folate, food 18.13%<br />Niacin 41.56%<br />Vitamin B-6 10.21%<br />Riboflavin 13.91%<br />Thiamin 27.30%<br />Vitamin C, total ascorbic acid 2.53%<br />Vitamin A, RAE 0.16%<br />Vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) 18.17%<br />Calcium, Ca 5.75%<br />Iron, Fe 147.00%<br />Phosphorus, P 212.59%<br />Magnesium, Mg 169.14%<br />Copper, Cu 0.19%<br />Selenium, Se 20.89%<br />Zinc, Zn 83.09%"
,,,,,American Pumpkin Seeds,These are not only one of the few pumpkin seeds grown in the USA . They are great and  fresh every time.
,,,,,"Bob's red mill pumkin seeds, Great product",This product is great tasting! I was eating the pepitas at half the price due to not finding USA made pumpkin seeds. The pepitas tasted bitter and were much larger.  I hope Red Mill continues to make their pumpkin seeds in the USA. It's worth the higher price for excellent quality and supporting local USA companies.
,,,,,I almost didn't order....,because these are more expensive than some of the other brands. I decided to order since they had great reviews and are a product of the USA. I'm sure glad I did because these are delicious! My whole family likes them straight out of the package. We've not yet taken the time to roast them.
,,,,,eat them up Yum!,I sprinkle these on Oat Groats or just grab a handful and munch.  I transferred the contents of the package to a ziplock once I opened it and keep it in the freezer to ensure freshness.
,,,,,Great Healthy Snack,"I had never tried Bob's Red Mill pumpkin seeds although I have used and been very happy with many of their other products. I was looking for pumpkin seeds from pumpkins grown in the USA. Most of the organic seeds are from China. The Bob's Red Mill seeds are from pumpkins grown in Oregon.<br /><br />I took the plunge and ordered 4 bags of these seeds, and they arrived in less than 48 hours.<br />Four sealed bags were also in a sealed Bob's Red Mill box and then packaged in a larger amazon box.<br /><br />I just opened one bag of the seeds to try them. They are WAY better than what I was getting at my local whole food store in bulk. These seeds are chewy as they should be and not hard or stale with any off-taste.<br />These have a slight pumpkin taste, which they should have. This variety of seed is rounder and flatter than some of the other pumpkin seed varieties I've had, which I like (no pointy ends to stab me as I'm munching them down).<br />All in all, a great buy!<br /><br />Seeds = 5 stars<br />Grown in the USA = 5 stars<br />Total = 10 stars!"
,,,,,seeds,i liked the idea theses were from the U.S.A.  and loved the taste and quality..i will buy more..they are a great source of iron.. and i take them with me everywhere i go for a healthy bit to eat...
,,,,,Fast Delivery; Fresh & Convenient Packaging,Lot of pumpkin seeds in this box of 4 packages. Fresh quality product & 24 oz packages made this box a good investment & easy to share with friends & family! Far less expensive than buying these seeds at the grocery store!
,,,,,disappointed,"The ones I received were mostly yellowish in color with some light green instead of dark green, dry and somewhat stale, they may have been in a warehouse longer that they should have!"
,,,,,good eating,"If you are a man this is the best you can do for your health, eat Pumpkin Seeds.  Bob's Red Mill has the best grown here in the good old USA.  The others are from China, enough said."
,,,,,My first subscription order received,"I like these so well that I signed up for the subscription rate where they mail you automatically every month or so - your choice.<br /><br />We eat a lot of these, but I've not roasted them yet. Most nuts taste better roasted, so why not?  Looking forward to it."
,,,,,Expected better,The pumpkin seeds I received from the Bob's Red Mill company were stale and contained a lot of small seed fragments.
,,,,,"Bob's Red Mill Pumpkin Seeds, Raw","These came fresh, and sprout well for me. I am very pleased with them. They make a tasty and nutritious addition to our salads. As usual, Amazon delivery and postage was great with the super saving shipping option."
,,,,,Yummy,They are raw so I put them on a cookie shhet no spray and dry roast them at 350 for 7 to 9 min. Then they have a roasted flavor without any of the oils.Cankeep in freezer to keep fresh.VEry yummy. Great on salads.
,,,,,Excellent Product,Just excellent product !!!!. I would buy it again. It is better than I was expecting. I do not have any complain about it.
,,,,,Pumpkin Seeds,"These Pumpkin Seeds are the quality I have grown to expect from Bob's products. This is the best price I have been able to find on pumpkin seeds and enjoy them on a daily basis, especially in the morning with oatmeal."
,,,,,Great taste,"Researched a lot on internet before buying these.. great price, great taste... completly happy with my purchase... although a bit expensive, but a quality product does comes with a price tag !!!!"
,,,,,"Bob's Red Mill Pumpkin Seeds, Raw, 24-Ounc...",I have only eaten the raw and they were as expected.  I'll be roasting some up this weekend but I'm always happy with Bob's products.  A+ company.
,,,,,Good quality and well packaged.....,Bobs Red Mill Pumkin Seeds came to me in a great box..and inside the box well packaged and extremly secure shelled seeds.<br /><br />I cannot say enough about the quality of the packaging--a really nice thing for me--because it takes some time for me to finish them all--and they stay fresh and secure because of the special care taken in the packaging.<br /><br />The quality of the seeds themselves is very good. They are uniform in appearance...well shaped...appetizing..and healty looking.<br /><br />The price here is totally right for those of us that need more closer to a bulk level of foods. These came in a multipack carton.<br /><br />These are not only items by Bob Red Mills --there are many--and if grains and nuts and seeds are in your diet..your childrens diet or even your pets diet.....then I cannot recommend this line enough to you--for fresh ....healthy eating !<br /><br />Try them !
,,,,,This Ice Cream Club ROCKS!!!,"Recently, I was gifted the Ice Cream of the Month Club by a very good friend. I was somewhat confused thinking ""how the heck can their be an ice cream of the month club?"" But, with having given and received numerous ""of the month clubs"" and having all great experiences in the past, I was curious to see what they had put together here. Needless to say, WHAT A FANTASTIC SURPRISE! The 4 boutique frozen deserts arrived packaged in dry ice and were completely frozen. My girlfriend and I were pretty enthusiastic to dive in and try them all, but took a step back to read the companies review on each of the vendors and brands. We decided that we would begin with the ""Berto's Gelato - Roasted Banana True Italian Artisan Gelato."" After a single bite, my girlfriend declared that it might be the best gelato she has ever had, and proceeded to eat most of it while we watched TV. The best description she give as she devoured the gelato was saying it was like having ""velvet wrapping around your body."" The additional flavors included in our shipment were Gilles Sherbet Swirl, Cedar Crest Elephant Tracks Ice Cream, and Oberweis Cookie Dough Classic. Each of the selections were very delicious and from companies I have never heard of. I highly recommend this club to any person looking to give or get an array of tasty desserts that you'll want to find more of once you're done!"
,,,,,Be Wary of AmazingClubs Ice Cream of the Month Club,"I ordered the 6 month ice cream of the month club for my wife's birthday.  She received her first shipment today and none of the 4 ice creams that were sent matched the sheet they included explaining the ice creams (you could have bought several of the ice creams, such as butter pecan or mint chocolate chip, in your local grocery store).  When I called the 800 number I was told that occasionally they reserve the right to change the ice cream if it doesn't ""meet their quality"" guidelines.  When I told her none of the four ice creams that we received matched the overview sheet from amazingclubs, the customer service rep was rude and told me that I needed to call back and talk to someone in their ""support group"" (note: you must call before 6:00 PM EST to speak to someone in this group). I would seriously caution you to shell out more than $300 for this club."
,,,,,Great low calorie sweetner!,"I use this in all my recipes calling for brown sugar.  As per the INSTRUCTIONS ON THE PACKAGE, use ONE-HALF the amount called for in the recipe. If the recipe states ONE CUP of brown sugar, you use ONLY ONE-HALF cup of Splenda Brown Sugar Blend. I am not a diabetic but I do have many family members who are and this is a great substitute for ""real"" brown sugar, even though it does contain part Splenda and part ""real"" brown sugar."
,,,,,Really Good - Can't Tell the Difference,"The only difference I can see between using this blend and using brown sugar is that you don't get the usual ""sugar rush"" when you eat the result.  Cookies and pies made with this Splenda blend - which does contain some sugar - taste the exactly the same as they did before.  Great stuff!  And it's gluten-free too."
,,,,,smithinsight,"There is nothing better than a huge baked sweet potato with (real) butter and Splenda Brown Sugar totally covering the butter and sweet potato, makes me want to fix one right now!"
,,,,,easy to use taste is very good,"I love this product. Now that the holidaze are falling apon us and I am a diabetic it's nice to be able to have treats that I can eat, and not feel deprived. This is a great brown sugar sub. it is the best I have tasted it works like regular brn sugar. so if your on a diet or diabetic like me your prayers have been answered."
,,,,,tastes great,I use this on my oatmeal every morning.  I can't tell the difference between this and brown sugar.  No 'after taste'.
,,,,,Wouldn't be without it,"First, I just found out it calls for HALF the Amount of Splenda Blend compared to regular brown sugar by reading these reviews.  In spite of that, I still give it an excellent score!<br /><br />I've always used brown sugars of all kinds in my coffee.  When at the store a few weeks ago I was looking for a lower calorie sweetener for my coffee and happened to buy this Splenda brown sugar blend.  I've been using it in my coffee since and love it.  The only difference I could tell was it was so much sweeter than my usual coffee that when I got close to the bottom of the cup I would pour more coffee into it to stretch the sweetness.  Now I know why...it's twice as sweet as regular brown sugar!<br /><br />Just ordered the 4-pack and this should tide me over for a while - adding it to teas and coffees...delicious! It's also cheaper on Amazon xoxox"
,,,,,"Tastes great, works as promised","Splenda contains real sugar, you have to pay attention to the word 'blend' in the title. Yes, diabetics can eat it because it's only half (or less) the blood sugar elevating agent of the same volume of 'real' sugar. It's also why it tastes like 'real' sugar and can be cooked unlike some sugar sustitutes. A lot of non-sucrose-based sweetners are destroyed by heat.<br /><br />What I've found with this Splenda brown sugar is, even though it's bulked up so that it's supposed to be equivalent in volume to all-sucrose, it's really very, very sweet so I do not substitute it 1:1 for sugar. I use much less than I would real sugar."
,,,,,very cool,"It has been mentioned that you only use HALF the Splenda blend than regular brown sugar, which is very cool. The only problem I have run into is when I need brown sugar for volume (making a crust for my rhubarb crunch), half does not work, so I end up using regular brown sugar (rather than double Splenda). Other than that it works like a charm and you can hardly taste the difference!"
,,,,,yummy good substitute for brown sugar,"This is a most excellent sugar substitute for those who watch their sugar intake.<br /><br />BUT!!! (and this is important because one does tend to follow recipes to a fault) you must use half as much as the recipe calls for, which btw, does not work as well as you'd hope.  It's just not nearly as sweet cup for cup.<br /><br />I make that up using extra Splenda white because I use brown sugar for it's sweetness as well as the molasses flavor.  This is why I will only give it four stars....because they COULD make it cup for cup by doing what I do and adding more Splenda white so a baker could follow their recipe and not give it a second thought.  Heaven knows they're charging enough for it.<br /><br />I'm sure you know this:  Brown sugar is unrefined or molasses sugar.  You can make your own brown sugar by adding 1 tablespoon unsulfured molasses to 1 cup cane sugar and mixing it with a fork. It comes out nice and fluffy and you can control how much caramel flavor it has.  (and how much extra sugar too)<br /><br />Splenda brown sugar blend as it is, is a very coarsely granulated Splenda, a little coarser than Splenda white.  So the texture is better than what you might mix up on your own.  So for convenience, you can't beat Splenda brown sugar blend.  The Splenda brand is superior (in my opinion) to the store brands that are popping up but YMMV, and your store might have a really good version.<br /><br />Still...and this accounts for a very good four stars you can always count on Splenda, for texture, for flavor and consistency.  When you bake, that counts for a lot in my book."
,,,,,best brown sugar replacement,"This taste just like brown sugar with less sugar.<br />I use this for everything , that requires sugar (baking ,est..) I use less of this than is required, like if it says use 1/2 cup I use 1/3 of splenda brown sugar."
,,,,,Part of my greek yogurt breakfast,"My morning breakfast:<br /><br />A six-ounce container of Fage 2% plain Greek Yogurt, mixed with a sliced banana and 3 or 4 sliced strawberries.  Add a teaspoon of Splenda Brown Sugar Blend, and it's nicely sweetened, and a healthy way for me to start my day.  I started this breakfast routine over a year ago, and haven't grown tired of it.  It was suggested at a Weight Watchers meeting as a very ""low points"" breakfast.  It has easily become my ""standard"" for breakfast...so much so that I will bring a bag of Splenda with me on vacations, in case I have trouble finding it at the store.  (I also openly admit that perhaps I'm too hung up on this routine.  But it's so satisfying in the morning that I don't care.)<br /><br />I haven't personally ever cooked with this brown sugar blend, but as a topping on my yogurt or a baked sweet potato, it's been great!"
,,,,,sweet,"This mix of Splenda and sugar works pretty  well for me. A teaspoon of it is enough for a large cup of coffee, and it tastes like a real brown sugar."
,,,,,BEST ON HOT CEREAL,I just love this. Even on my diet I can have hot & yummy oameal...It is satisfing & without that rich brown sugar flavor its just not the same taste...Love it!!!
,,,,,Good Stuff!,I've been using this to cook with for over a year.  Never had a problem with it.  Love it!
,,,,,Tastes Like Real Brown Sugar,"Love this substitute for brown sugar.  Always stays moist and no one can tell that I am using it, instead of regular brown sugar."
,,,,,Nice for baking,I have used this in my baking with the regular splenda and it works great! Always trying to cut calories with out loosing flavor. Works great in my muffins with just a touch of sugar.
,,,,,The Sweet Life,Baking for my husband (with type 2 diabetes) just go easier.<br />I can adapt regular receipes. I use only half the amount of sugar called for a Bam! they turn out great. The 4 pack is a great buy too!
,,,,,Make your own,"This is simply a mix of brown sugar and Splenda, I am sure it would be cheaper to make your own"
,,,,,Great,If you are looking to cut out some cal and want a great taste then go with this. I keep getting it sent to me every 6 months. Love it!!
,,,,,A good alternative,"I purchased this item to bake some low carb cookies for a diabetic friend.  This works well for that, however, I did find that there is another brown sugar alternative that is calorie free.  Both options worked well in the cookies."
,,,,,For what it is,"I am still undecided if this is a sugar free option. I know it is mixed with real brown sugar and therefore it has the drawbacks for people who tries to stir clear away from sugar. As far as the taste it is just like brown sugar and it works very good in all baking endeavors, which was the principal reason for the purchase. It does have sugar but I have not been able to determine how and if is detrimental to those who prefer not to partake in using sugar. I mostly use ezsweet that has 0 everything but needed to use some kind of sugar so I bought this. Perhaps it deserves a higher rating and also there is the chance it might deserve 3 Stars instead of 4. Still, it is a better option than most items out there in the free world so that is why I allocated 4 Stars. Hope this helps and wish all who read this the most wonderful and invigorating holidays, starting with Thanksgiving all the way to the New Year. 4 Stars for Splenda Brown Sugar Blend 16-Ounce Packages (Pack of 4), which by the way it ended being in quantity much more than I had bargained for but what can you do? Unless in the future amazon would allow to split orders such as this with other deserving amazon customers. Imagine that!"
,,,,,This Product Has SUGAR in it... DOH!,I made the mistake of thinking that this product was simply Brown sugar flavored Splenda. I didn't read the product details stating that it actually has brown sugar in it.. My mistake...
,,,,,Potato Sticks,"Who ever is making French's Potato Sticks,Keep it up! They are the best! French's should have keep them in their line.Mike"
,,,,,"DARE You to Eat just ""1"" Bag!","Oh My - these are going on my list to re-order! They are absoultely DELCIOUS! Actually like them a lot better than the Oreos with cream in the middle. Crispy, crunchy, low cal cookie (if you can eat only 1 bag, that is). Packs a powerful chocolate punch - for a low cal snack. Satisfies my chocolate craving without the guilt. [Actually choose these over the Lorna Doone thins any day - more flavorful & satisfying]. Have to stop myself from ripping open a 2nd pkg."
,,,,,yum,"My 10 month old son has been a fan of Yummy Spoonfuls from his first bite. The Garden Medley flavor is a new favorite. The puree is thick and almost creamy, perfect for a baby who likes his food to have texture. He's always happy when I bring a cup of this to his tray!"
,,,,,"beware, these are tuber indicum, not melanosporum","These are not black winter truffles (Tuber melanosporum).  I thought the price was too good to be true, (even though they aren't fresh), and it is.  These are Tuber indicums.  It says so right on the label.<br /><br />I was very angry about this, but JR Mushrooms has said they will refund me for the truffles and even let me keep them.  So I give JR credit for excellent  responsiveness and customer service, although I still feel they should not be labeled ""black winter truffles""."
,,,,,JR Mushrooms is the answer,if every seller was like JR mushrooms the world would be a much better place. They wont stop until there customer is completly satisfied. I ordered some winter black truffles from them and got my package lightning fast but came to find out that it wasnt what i ordered. I called JR and they said they sent better quality black truffles that cost more for the same price and this story doesnt end they even sent a jar of the original truffles i ordered just so i can taste the diffrence FOR FREE!!!!!!!!! Name another seller that would do that.
,,,,,Amazing Company,Finally - a company that cares about it's reputation and products!  I ordered these truffles and recieved them securely packaged and protected to ensure they arrived safely and as quickly as possible.  I am even planning a special dinner with friends entirely based around the truffles I ordered as I was so please with them.<br /><br />  I also saw the other products this company carries - the attention to detail and the information provided on each and every product is outstanding - just like their quality (i.e.: Saffron).  I have found my gourmet source from now on!
,,,,,JR Mushrooms and Specialties is the Rolls-Royce of Gourmet Food Providers,"True story: I surfed online looking for difficult and expensive to find gourmet ingredients when I came across this listing.  Every review raved about the excellent service provided by JR Mushrooms.  I phoned them to ask a question about refrigeration vs shelf storage and got a voice-mail.  I left a message and five minutes later the man himself personally called and gave me friendly and professional answers to my questions.  I ordered these truffles and several other items.  The next morning there was a little personal e-mail from JR thanking me for the order and by noon the order had arrived, although I chose the cheapest shipping.  THIS is the best customer service I have ever experienced with on-line shopping.  Thanks!"
,,,,,Customer service by J R Mushrooms,"First package was lost in the mail, but JR shipped a backup at no charge with 24 hour shipment!!!!"
,,,,,Excellent!,"Not only are the truffles excellent, but the package arrived in record speed with standard shipping chosen.  We are very pleased with our truffles and with our experience with this company.  We will be ordering from them again!"
,,,,,black truffles,I though this product lack flavor as I taste different brands far better.<br />There were no real flavor as I expected. Sorry
,,,,,No taste,Had no taste and after the heat of the dish it was on turned them to a leathery tecture. Better off buying the high price truffles.
,,,,,Not the truffles you want,"We tried these and they were bland and had no redeeming qualities. We sauteed them slightly and also tried them as is shaved. The price as some have mentioned reflects what you get for truffles.  Spend your money on white truffle oil you'll be much happier, we are.  Also wait for the white truffles to come in from Italy, I would not knock JR as a company but would not recommend this offering."
,,,,,what truffle?,There was absolutly no scent or flavor to this.When I brought home truffles from Aosta in Italy they were wonderful and cost less. These were worthless.
,,,,,extreme disappointment,"i ordered this in the past and was extremely disappointed. they are unlike truffles that i know of. they were hard like a huge seed, had no truffle aroma. i threw all contents out. will never order them again"
,,,,,"No taste, no smell","This is not what one should expect from a black truffle, but we are not paying the price for a winter truffle. It is cheap, but there is a reason for that: there is no taste and no smell at all. I was disappointed when I tried this truffle, but I realized that the price was that for a reason. At least it can be used to add a colour to your dish."
,,,,,Big disappointment,"I should have listened to the negative reviews, but hoped that the positive reviews would ring more true. There was veery little truffle flavor that got entirely lost in the risotto I made. I agree with the other reviewers in that this was woody and flavorless. Not worth even this price for truffles."
,,,,,If you're looking to add a truffle LOOK only to your dish & NO Flavor--then this is it!,"Little lesson on TRUFFLES...<br />Truffles graded ""Extra"" are larger than most, the second highest in truffle quality. Best when used at the conclusion of the cooking process, to release all their aroma and perfume. Chefs suggest to slice or shave thinly over pastas, risottos and omelets. Whole -entire truffles- are marked ""brushed"" (which means they have been cleaned of any soil or dirt), preserved in brine or truffle juice -which can be discarded or use to flavor sauced or broths -and are ready to use.<br /><br />Preserved truffles are a nice, budget-friendly way to add VISUAL truffle appeal to dishes. However, if you are looking to add the pungent aroma and taste of truffles to your dish, chefs recommend that you explore fresh truffle selections. Jarred or canned truffles, sold by vendors, are mere shadows of their fresh truffle selves and will not, by themselves, deliver the aroma or flavor of fresh truffles. They are great to use with truffle oil - the oil will add the flavor, the preserved truffles the truffle ""look"", but preserved truffles should be used only to garnish a dish, or in conjunction to truffle butter and oil during those times when fresh truffles are out of season or when the budget doesn't allow for the real thing.<br />NOTE: Preserved truffles out of the jar or can have almost NO FLAVOR or odor. If you are looking for the true flavor of a fresh truffle, then please go to seek fresh truffle pages online and purchase a fresh truffle. If you're looking to add a truffle LOOK only to your dish, then this is the product for you.<br /><br />Better to buy real truffle oil & experiment, for example ""JR Mushrooms & Specialties"" on Amazon, is a good start--about 10 dollars is low commitment that is in line with a superior bottle of extra virgin olive oil (EVOO)."
,,,,,AWEFULL,"I was very excited about this purchase until I tried this truffle.<br />These were horrible.  Maybe I got the worst bottle they have ever sold and I just happened to get them.  But, these are bad.  If you want to eat the root of a dirty old root of a tree, you will enjoy these.  If you doubt my credibility of my review, please feel free to read my other reviews.  Please don't waste your money.  My wife tried these and couldn't even believe these could be called truffles."
,,,,,No stars for this expensive garbage,"Zero stars for this item.  I couldn't even confirm that the wrinkled little animal-offal sort of thing is a truffle.  This lacks any aromatic attraction at all.  I'd be afraid to put it in anything I planned to eat for fear it would ruin the entire item.<br /><br />As for the famous JR service, my complaints about this product have been ignored."
,,,,,horrible,"I am the biggest fan of mushrooms you'll ever meet, but these are really disgusting. They taste like dirt. I have to imagine better quality truffles (if these are even truffles at all) are muuuuch better. They'd have to be. There'd be no comparison. These are really bad."
,,,,,French Truffles at American prices!,"I gave this item as a gift and the recipient has not yet made the dish for which I gave it to her (a Foie Gras dish). But I must say this price for a French truffle is amazing. I suspect most of us do not have the palates to appreciate the $300 truffles. Good for those of you who do. But for the rest of us, this is a good choice.<br />Linda Morse"
,,,,,Great Service.  Interesting Product,"This review is mostly about the seller.  They are great!  The product arrived within 2 days, with standard shipping.<br /><br />I have never had black truffles before.  They have a very earthy, smoky flavor that really emerges when lightly sauteed in butter.  They are an expensive, pleasant, treat."
,,,,,Delicious!!!!!!!!,This is our second time using your black winter truffles....they are truly delicious. We throw them in with pasta and truffle oil to have the world's best dish...reminds of our stay in Tuscany. This is a quality product and we plan on buying again in the near future.
,,,,,Customer Sevice,"Recieved the truffles in one day shipping the customer service is over the top...I opened the jar and enjoyed the aroma, I will shop with them again"
,,,,,Nothing special,"These truffles are not as great as they are made up to be. I thought for the price they would have a greater taste, but they didn't have much taste at all. They are not worth the price, but had to find out for myself. I will not be buying truffles again, and I'm not going to spend over $10 for a fresh one."
,,,,,No bitterness great flavor and it does work,"Tying to find a tea that didn't have that bitter taste was difficult; and the cost of teas is not cheap anymore.  I was trying many of the healing teas, but they had stevia added to them and I could not get past the taste of that.  This tea is not bitter, and has a very nice smooth flavor.  I have had it both hot and cold.  I do feel that I am energized after drinking it, but it is not a jittery hyper feeling; it is more of an awake and alert feeling mentally and refreshed energized physical feeling.  Some reviewers state it has a sweet taste to it but I do not get that.  While I do not often add my 1/2 packet of sugar in the raw to it perhaps that is what they mean; that you do not have to add sugar to it.  I have replaced my second cup of coffee in the morning with this tea and I even have another cup throughout the day instead of coffee.  Excellent taste and an all around great product."
,,,,,This Guayusa is Fantabulous,"As a long time Yerba Mate and Coffee drinker, Runa's Traditional Guayusa has switched me over permanently!  The super smooth and sweet flavor to this ""tea"" gives it the same drinkability of any other stimulant based drink, but with the lasting power and complexity as any high end tea.<br /><br />Drink up!"
,,,,,Love this tea!,"I was introduced to Runa guayusa about 6 months ago and I have been drinking it pretty consistently since then. It is a great alternative to coffee, which tends to make me nervous. The taste is mild and almost a little sweet, also it doesn't get bitter like green tea or yerba mate when steeped for too long.<br /><br />Also Runa's business model makes me feel good about drinking this tea, they are a certified B Corp and they do great work with the farmers in the Amazon.<br /><br />I highly recommend you try it!"
,,,,,I drink this instead of coffee,"I usually don't drink tea because it doesn't have the caffeine kick I'm looking for, but guayusa tea has almost as much caffeine as a cup of coffee. And unlike coffee, it doesn't need to be drowned in cream and sugar to taste good and doesn't have any of the other unpleasant side effects. I usually add about half a spoonful of sugar per cup, which is enough to pleasantly complement the natural flavor. Now if only Starbucks would start carrying guayusa..."
,,,,,Me Gusta Guayusa,"As a tea-junkie, Runa's traditional guayusa offers a simple, agreeable taste that's not like any other tea I've had. I used to swear by matcha green tea, but Runa is a superior alternative in that it's super-cheap, more energizing, much easier to swallow, and offers just as many health benefits.<br /><br /> Also, if you look into it, Runa's doing some great things on the side of social entrepreneurship and rainforest conservation. I highly suggest reading into it-- it'll make you love the product even more."
,,,,,Don't knock it til ya try it.,"You'd be surprised how much Runa Tea can help you in your daily life. Thirsty or not, Hot or cold, this tea can help you in many ways. As a college student studying to be an entrepreneur, I can't just take prescribed drugs all the time to keep my attention span up. Instead, I turn to caffeine all day every day. Runa Tea has been one of the few products that have really caused me to feel refreshed as if I was just hydrated after a run, as well as feeling focused as if I were ready to write a 10 page paper from scratch. I don't know what it is, but it just makes you feel good in every way. Personally, I love the cold tea- but as a consumer everyone needs to find their niche, as I am a huge hot tea drinker and chose the cold version- Either way, same thing.  You need to try it. And then try and contradict our 5 star opinions! :)"
,,,,,Amazing tea - flavor + energy,"Clean taste and clean energy.<br /><br />Packaging is attractive, simple, and elegant as well.<br /><br />Sustainable sourcing and organic cert round out the whole package.<br /><br />Overall nice product."
,,,,,"Taste Good, Do Good","As much of a tea fanatic as I consider myself, I'd never heard of guayasa before running into the Runa brand. Now that I have, I could see myself buying it over and over again! It has a full-bodied flavor without the bitter aftertaste of some black teas. It's earthy without being heavy-handed or overpowering, completely unique from any other tea I've tasted. You won't find tea like this anywhere else. And though the product speaks for itself, the business model of this brand doesn't hurt: Runa buys guayusa directly from local farmers in Ecuador at fair-trade prices. Try it! It's worth every cent :)"
,,,,,"I am not a tea drinker, and yet, I LOVE THIS TEA!","I watched a YouTube video on guayusa tea, and heard very good things about it there and on the amazon reviews as welll so I thought I would give it a try. Money well spent! This tea is smooth and easy to drink, and is absolutely delicious with sugar and honey.<br />Another awesome thing about this tea is the dreams you get. My mother hasn't had a lucid dream in years, and I offered this tea to her one day, and that night she had three vivid lucid dreams! She was so thrilled she bought two more boxes of the Runa guayusa tea. I am so satisfied with this product, and would definitely recommend to anyone who needs some steady energy, focus, and vivid dreams. :)"
,,,,,As good as advertised,"I saw an ad for Runa guayusa in Mother Jones magazine and because it is a Fair Trade item and described as less bitter than tea, I thought I'd give it a try.<br /><br />It is exactly as advertised - no bitterness, just a little hint of sweetness, and a nice gentle flavor.  Very easy drinking, and it does give a kick of caffeine energy.  I have been a Diet Pepsi / Diet Coke drinker for 25 years because I like their tastes and the caffeine (never could do coffee and tea is too bitter), but I have recently converted to being a bicycle commuter for work and needed to ditch the heavy soda drinks.  This guayusa is perfect - as tea bags, it is obviously lighter than hauling around sodas, and it has more caffeine too.  Better for me, too.  And no bitterness like tea or coffee.  And I'm supporting fair trade small farmers in Ecuador instead of giant soda companies.  The packaging is 100% recycled, 70% post-consumer.<br /><br />This guayusa is as good as advertised, I like drinking it, and I can't think of any negatives.  5 stars.  I'm glad I found this product, it is worth the price."
,,,,,So many options!,"Talk about a versatile new product. Drink it hot on a winter morning, drink it iced on a summer afternoon, mix it with your favorite coctail, add it to a marinade, combine it with your your best herbs- I love it all! It's smooth and almost silky texture and lack of tannins make it great for anything. How has it taken so long to make it to the states!"
,,,,,amazon monopoly/ripoff,love the snack.  wanted to buy a bunch.<p>shipping at amazon is more than the price of the snack.  try ordering a dozen and then look at the shipping price.<p>every link i've tried to this snack takes you back to amazon's exhorbitant shipping rates.<p>another reason to buy your books at overstock.com.  too back they don't carry food as well.
,,,,,Chocolate Raspberry Flavored Coffee,"This is the worst flavored coffee I have ever tried.  There is no aroma or flavor of Chocolate/Raspberry to this coffee bean at all.  In fact the coffee tastes sour.  I too am sorry I couldn't buy just 1 lb. to try it first -- Now I am stuck with this awful coffee I cannot return.  SO, BUYER BEWARE -- NO RETURNS!"
,,,,,never will purchase again,"I like some of Coffee Bean Direct coffees, but I cannot stand the taste of this one, and no one else in the house likes it either. I wish I could of bought it in a smaller package, rather than the 5 lb bag that cost over $30. I do not recommend this product to anyone, but everybody has their own taste, and some people may like it."
,,,,,Chocolate,"Wow this Chocolate Raspberry flavored coffee is the absolute best we have ever had and I can honestly say we have tried quite a few in our time. And of course the price can't be beat unless you find someone who wants to sell you some that ""fell"" off the back of some delivery truck."
,,,,,Chocolate Raspberry flavor,I was surprised how much raspberry flavor the coffee has.  The coffee has a nice aroma and a suddal chocolate flavor.  I will get this flavor again.
,,,,,Great Raspberry Flavor,We really enjoy this coffee. We recommend to store it in an airtight container after opening to maintain it's full flavor. We enjoy it as an evening coffee.
,,,,,Good Stuff,"This coffee is my favorite.  I usually don't like the taste of coffee and can't tell the difference between brands, but this stuff tastes different and good.  My only complaint is that Amazon raised the price recently from 29.70 to 34.42.  I still bought it again at the higher price but if it goes any higher I probably won't."
,,,,,dog treat,Nice small nutritious biscuit. Nice pocket size. Resealable pouch is a plus as well. Will order more in the future.
,,,,,Amazon makes mama happy again...,"My cairn, Jack, and westie, Mojo, both love the lamb what we refer to as ""doggie cookie bones.""<br />They're finally accepting the need to go out onto our five scrub acres to relieve themselves<br />with help of the Pro Plan Biscuits with Real Lamb as a reward.  We use the small ones as Jack<br />tends to overeat and Mojo weighs less than 20 lbs. This one item added to their daily menu has<br />made a huge difference in our household, reducing the ""mama's not happy"" time to about zilch!"
,,,,,mmmm good tea,I am so happy to have found a wonderful decaf tea for myself and guests. This tea is nice and full flavored and has a very smooth finish. I usually use the K-cup twice on xl setting and the tea remains true and delicious. The price is the best i have found anywhere
,,,,,Excellent Taste,"Twinings English Breakfast Decaffeinated Tea was exactly what I was looking for.  I loved the English Breakfast tea but needed to find a decaf version.  The taste is great, the price is right, and I'm sold!"
,,,,,YUM without the BUZZZZZZZZZZ,"Great tasting tea - in fact, much better then the bags of same. I'm an Decaf Irish Breakfast tea drinker but can't find that in K-Cups.  English Breakfast in K-cups tastes great!!"
,,,,,Twinings---a good cup of tea,I have been drinking Twining's tea for years.  It used to be made in England but now they have a plant in North Carolina for the American trade.  The tea is excellent. I drink the decaf for health reasons and find that it is as tasty as the regular tea.
,,,,,Good tea,This is a pretty good cup of tea. I just wish PG Tips made pods for the Keurig brewer.  Maybe eventually!
,,,,,good,i just purchased a kurig and this was one of the first k cups i bought i still use it  but if it was decaf would be better than id rate it five starts
,,,,,Fantastic!!,"Please don't tell me this is going to be a ""seasonal"" find only!!!  I made the pink lemonade cake with the pink lemonade frosting for July 4th and it was such a big hit!!!  The blend of lemon, sweet, and pink are just right!!!  When I went back to get more mixes they had been relegated to the ""Seasonal Clearance"" section -- and I could only find 2 cake mixes and no more frosting.  = (  It's definitely a year round keeper -- I'm thinking granddaughter birthday parties, ballet recital parties, pinkalicious parties!!!"
,,,,,Yum,"I made the pink lemonade cake mix and used this frosting to frost it for Mother's day, and it was a huge success. My mother, who doesn't normally like cake really enjoyed this. I thought it had just the right blend of tangy and sweet. I hope this flavor sticks around, because it was really good!"
,,,,,Delcious and Ready For Spring & Summer,"Pink Lemonade is one of my all time favorite drinks, so when I saw Pilsbury had this beautifully pink ""Pink Lemonade"" frosting, I had to get it. I paired it with their ""Pink Lemonade"" cake mix.<br /><br />I think I died and went to pink lemonade heaven! Actual lemon flavoring gives this just a hint of tartness, while the sweetness drives you mad! The gorgeous pink color says ""Easter"" and ""Spring""!<br /><br />Perfect for dessert for the family, or the ladies tea.<br /><br />I highly recommend this yummy frosting! [Try it with the cake mix too!]"
,,,,,My Fav!,"This is my favorite of all the choices of coffee for the new Vue. I don't like strong-tasting coffee - I prefer Dunkin Donuts over Starbucks. Until they come out with a Dunkin Donuts vue pack, this light roast is perfect for me."
,,,,,Tastes like tea,This is an awful coffee. The flavor is extremely weak and tastes more like a lemon grass tea than coffee.
,,,,,Good Medium Roast,"I have recently purchased the Vue by Kurig and I must say my initial impressions are very positive. The new design provides a better cup of coffee. Having used Green Mountain Nantucket Breakfast Blend before, I was presented with a very good cup of coffee. It is actually stronger and better flavored than the original. The brewing system must contribute to the difference. If you like medium roast coffee as your morning ""wake me up"" than you should give this a try assuming you are going to use it in the new Vue machine."
,,,,,very good,"I was very happy with the way this turned out. It is very similar to traditional American beers(Bud/Coors) but with an extra kick. The flavor is very smooth, has a creamy head and ends with a slight bitternes. This is a great beer to start with for new brewers and veterans alike. If you are to anxious to wait for it to age, you can drink it after 2 weeks. It will taste good, but get better with age. Make sure to put it in the fridge after it carbonates. Lager ages and taste best when in colder conditions."
,,,,,Great Brew -- Will Try Again,"I brewed this kit first as it was the one that came with the brewery kit. I followed the instructions exactly. NOTE: If you don't follow the instructions exactly you are opening up opportunity for problems. I brewed for about 7 days. I then bottled and let condition for 2 weeks at room temperature. I then put the beer in the fridge. I tried two bottles the next day. The taste was OK, but it was very flat. I then put more bottles in the fridge and let them sit for 2 weeks. I tried one of these after the two weeks and it was great. The carbonation was perfect and the taste improved even more. Definitely give the beer time to condition. You will be glad you did."
,,,,,Nice starter kit,"makes a nice lager that's quite a bit heavier than the domestic lager beers. I don't plan on making any more, but has more to do with my love of dark ales than the quality/flavor of this kit."
,,,,,Just good beer!,I have been brewing this beer off and on for the past five years along with many others. When it comes time to pour a glass it has never let me down. Even without using lagering methods it always develops into a a tasty drink.
,,,,,Easy to brew. Husband loves it.,"I got my husband a brew kit from Coopers for his birthday. The Lager is the only beer he's tried to brew, but he says it's very easy and it tastes good. It tastes best if you only let it ferment in the bottles for a week. We're definitely going to try other flavors."
,,,,,Good brew but...,"This is a good brew for the time and expense involved. That being said, the longer you ferment and bottle condition, the better it will be. I thought I had drank all of my batch when I discovered two additional bottles tucked away. They were the best and they had sat for a good three months. Give it time. If you follow the included directions you will get closer to six gallons vs the five in the Amazon description. Additionally, the included directions state to use sugar. Obviously DME/LME will work better, but you can still use plain old old sugar(I've used brown sugar and avoided any ""cider"" like finish).  If you order the ""full kit"" it comes with carbonation drops and a dextrose adjunct. Save yourself the money, get this kit, use sugar and bottle condition forever..."
,,,,,cooper's OS lager as base,"I love using the Cooper's OS lager can as a base for making various pale ales. Since it has bittering only,I can add different hops & DME's to it to make light to dark amber ales. It's easy to get consistent results with. Especially when re-hydrating the yeast in 1.5C luke warm water to which 2tsp of dextrose has been added.<br />It's a good product for experimenting for the beginner & experienced home brewer alike."
,,,,,Greatest healthy snack,"These almond rice pops are a very healthy snack.  17 cubes are 2 points in weight watchers and you feel like you are cheating. They are oven baked, all natural and extremely tasty.  Biggest problem is they are very hard to find. Almond Pops with Blueberry used to be sold at Costco but no longer. Can't find those anywhere<br />I order often and in volume because my friends all like them too so I share my orders with them<br />Expensive snack but well worth it"
,,,,,Yum! But 18.25?,"I bought a bag of the blueberry version of this snack at Costco recently (well not just one bag.. i went back and got four!) They are really really good. Not too sweet, gluten free, vegan and all natural ingredients. At Costco they were $6.99. I was googling it to see if i could find the other flavors listed on the back of the package - cranberry and pineapple mango - and this listing came up. $18.25 is the current price listed. I mean this product is good, but not THAT good. I wonder if the price listed is a typo."
,,,,,"180 Snacks, gluten-free","<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00769ZSVO"">180 Snacks Almond Pops With Cranberries 17 oz Value Bag</a><br /><br />I have Celiac Disease, and while shopping I picked up a bag of these snacks because they are gluten free. So YUMMY, I had to have more and found them on Amazon and ordered 3 bags.I will be saving them for our trip south for the winter. They are absolutely the best!!"
,,,,,Addictive!!!,I just discovered this addiction at TJMaxx!!!  I paid $7.99 (kind of pricy) but when I opened the bag and tasted them for the first time....OMG!  I could'nt believe it!  I can not put the bag down!  You can't eat just one...I have to stop myself from eating so many.  I have googled the website and they are down for construction until October 1st.  My only hope is when they open up the site that they will sell these at a reasonable price and not be outrageously priced like ebay and others!  I like them but I'm not paying over $7.99 for them!  Anywho....Give these little snacks a try!  They taste great and most of all Healthy!
,,,,,They're great,"These are delicious and addictive.  They are touted as ""healthy""  but I didn't see anything particularly healthy in the nutritional list.  But they aren't unhealthy, which is good enough for me.  The best thing about them?  Costco is carrying them now.  Can't vouch for next month."
,,,,,Tasty and Healthy,"Yeah these are very tastely and healthy, but the price here is ridculously high at $18.  Not sure I understand why since Amazon is just referring you to 180snacks.com, where you can't find the Almond Pops, but you can buy them!  So, if you search Almond Pops with Blueberries at Google it will take you to the 180 site and you can add them to your cart!  I e-mailed them and they said their site is under contruction.  I'm about to try and order from them directly.  Hope it works out since it's hard to find tasty and healthy snacks."
,,,,,Almond Pops with Blueberries,"Ssssssssssssssh don't tell anybody!!!  More for me!  These are the best snacks ever and I am excited about them because my daughter plays softball and we have snack rotation... guess what they will be getting? Also for the kids little league, healthy, crunchy and satisfying, just what the little guys need!"
,,,,,Love this snack!,"The 180 Snacks Almond Pops with blueberries are the best. I love the bite sized pieces. The flavor is fantastic. Very crunchy, not too sweet, nutty and fruit flavored at the same time. The perfect healty snack."
,,,,,great taste,"Love the taste of this product, really keeps you full with just a small amount.  First bought it at Costco, they no longer sell this product.  The reason for the two stars, half the bag was crushed, could eat it with a spoon."
,,,,,NASTY-Shouldn't even be sold!-no stars,"Check out the nutritional info, the SODIUM: 5,510 grams! 230% of your daily requirement. I used this and our casserole was ruined because it was so salty!!!!!! And what's up with that price? My box cost a dollar. Unfortunately I bought two boxes, so I'm throwing the other box away. No bargain here. It is wildly UN-delicious and UN-healthy for you!<br />(Yeah, I'm embarrassed that I didn't read the label first!)"
,,,,,A Better Choice for the Movies or Anytime!,"Looking for a more nutritious snack? Ever wish that your favorite buttery popcorn was just a little better for you? The answer is here. Grandpa Po's Orginals, innovative snack made from organic soybeans,comes in Slightly Unsalted and Slightly Spicy.<br /><br /> Our family & friends love this terrifc snack. What a bonus that it is also organic and good for us! I can eat the whole bag all by myself & have! Our 4 kids & their friends love them too. We have been requested to only bring Grandpa Po's Nutra Nuts for our snack turn at Girl Scouts, Confrimation, and for the tennis team. We have been so lucky to have been able to enjoy them for years! Thank you! Betsy from NJ"
,,,,,CRUNCHIE MUNCHIE GOOD!,SO CRUNCHIE GOOD!  HEALTHY ~ AND THE KIDS LOVE EM!  WHAT MORE DO YOU WANT IN A SNACK.  (BESIDES A 12-STEP PROGRAM TO STOP EATING THEM.)  THEY'RE FANTASTIC!!!
,,,,,Best Snack Ever!,"Grandpa Po's is the best snack ever!  Driving around in LA, I so often find myself stuck in traffic just when my blood sugar starts to drop.  Add the stress of being late to my next appointment and I'm a basket case!  Grandpa Po's is the perfect snack to take on the road.  Not too salty or sweet, they  satisfy that need to nosh without feeling gross. I even feel fortified!  Plus they come in this nifty zip-lock bag that keeps them fresh even if I leave them in my car for a couple of days.  I never want to be caught in traffic without them!"
,,,,,A Healthy Snack,"Grandpa Po's Originals are crunchy nuggets made from organic popcorn and organic soybeans. The healthy snack offers the benefits of soy without genetically modified organisms, cholesterol, peanuts or preservatives. In addition, the snack is low in saturated fat and it tastes great."
,,,,,Everyone goes for GRANDPA PO'S!!!,"If you are looking for absolutely guilt-free snacking, keep looking.... However, if you are craving a snack: crunchy, salty, buttery satisfaction, minus the preservatives and unhealthy ingredients of normal snack foods, Grandpa Po's is the way to go!  It is the closest you'll get to guilt free snacking that wasn't found in the fruit/veg aisle in the supermarket.  4 simple ingredients make this crunchy popcorn soybean snack extremely satisfying and ""not-so-naughty"" when compared to the million other snack foods out there, not to mention the many unpronounceable ""mystery"" ingredients included in them - not the things you want to put in your body.  For my destination wedding, I brought a few cases of Nutra Nuts to put in my guests' welcome bags.  Well, no one even mentioned all the other local gourmet treats that were in the bags -the Grandpa Po's were the hit!  Everyone was walking around w/ their Grandpa Po's Originals pouch in hand: ""these things are GREAT!""  Clever packaging allows you to reseal and keep them fresh for the next urge to snack - although usually not necessary for this customer!"
,,,,,"I'm diabetic, and thank GOODNESS for Grandpa Po!","I've tried every one of this line of products and I have to say, I'm blown away by just how satisfying they all are. Not too much, not too little, every recipe falls within my personal taste parameters, as well as everyone I know who has tried 'em, for that matter.  The ratio of carbs to protein, the low sodium, etc., makes this a VERY attractive snack to me because I'm diabetic.  It's why I'm compelled to write a review. It's REALLY hard satisfying some of the cravings a diabetic gets. We LOVE our carbs, but it's SO hard finding low-carb snacks that give the same satisfaction as, say, a loaf of bread, or crunchy sweets, etc. The Grandpa Po line literally saves my a** because too often I ""cheat"" on stuff that drives up my blood glucose, and that is VERY bad. So, a handful of this stuff LITERALLY is a benefit to my health. Fellow diabetics, TAKE NOTE!"
,,,,,Great Snack for the Family,"Indoors, outdoors, wherever you go - Grandpa Po's Originals provide families with a fun, tasty anytime treat! They're perfect for playing; they're super for school lunches...& serious snacking, too!"
,,,,,AMAZING!! I am addicted to Grandpa Po's!,"I LOVE this snack!! I ordered one case and since have ordered about 25!!  They are just salty enough to satisfy your cravings, just spicy enough to give you a little kick, and just sweet enough to stop you from grabbing that candy bar...I can't think of a better, more healthy, satisfying snack food - you have GOT TO TRY THEM!!  Trust me, you will not be disappointed!!<br />[...]"
,,,,,Scored Big On Our Party's Fun Factor,"Grandpa Po's Originals scored big on our party's fun factor. These half-baked nuggets of organic popcorn blended with dry-roasted soybeans were a surprise hit with both kids and adults. Our young nibblers approached this snack with a quizzical, ""what is this? caution. But once tasted, the bowl was quickly emptied and our partygoers were eager for a refill. Grandpa Po's come in Slightly Unsalted and Slightly Spicy."
,,,,,Grandpa Po's Scored a 97 out of 100. This Product is a HIT!,"""The Crunchy Popcorn Snack with Soybeans"" that Grandpa Po has created makes us want to meet the ol' man and give him a pat on the back! While we are questioning the slogan on the package ""Better Than Food"" - there is, however, no questioning this recipe for a great tasting, healthy snack. The mix of organic popcorn and organic soybeans makes a great alternative snack food and we love the re-sealable pouch. With just the right proportion of soybeans to popcorn this product comes from a company that celebrates food. Hooray!"
,,,,,Grandpa Po's are Majorly Addictive,"Outstanding!  DElicious!  What on earth are these things? Simple. They're a yummy mix of nuggets made from organic popcorn and organic dry roasted soybeans. They're so delicious your head may actually explode once you taste them. Slightly Unsalted, but majorly addictive, these crunchy snacks are good for you."
,,,,,I love snacks,I love snacks and Grandpa Po's Originals are a great snack to satisfy a hunger craving. They are crunchy and have great flavor. It's hard to stop eating the whole bag in one sitting!
,,,,,Yummy!,We have always loved this snack.  Each time we seem to enjoy it a little bit more.  My daughter is a huge fan of it and is so glad that we can grab it and go.  It's a nutritious snack that satisfies all the tastebuds.  Some of us have even tried the slightly spicy brand.  Having both flavors allows us to satisfy those who like spicy and those who don't with the same snack...thus no arguments between the kids!
,,,,,They are Better Than Food,"If anything can actually be better than food, this snack certainly fits the bill.  You gotta try them.  They're tasty, crunchy and just plan corney.  Like the ""bottom of the pot"" kernels we used to fight over as kids, these kernels fit the bill.  However, we no longer have to fight over them cause the bag is full of them!  Great job in creating these things.  Now excuse me as I nibble on some more."
,,,,,Grandpa Po's Originals are deliciously addicting,"These are a great grab and go snack that satisfy.  I love pop corn but don't eat it that much because my husband hates my breath while I am eating it at the movies, so I take Grandpa Po's Originals instead and he keeps hogging the bag!  I know soy beans are healthy for you and this is the only way I enjoy to eat them.  I love these!!!"
,,,,,my favorite prize for students,"Grandpa Po's Originals are my students' favorite prize for the classroom. Our school district has banned junk food for incentives for kids so Grandpa Po's is a perfect fit. The kids get a bag when they complete all of their assignments for the month. They love the snack and they work hard to get all their work done. Their parents love the reward too and many students come back to buy more to take home to the family. Thanks, Grandpa Po for your ""better than food"" snack!"
,,,,,"Crunchy, healthy, satisfying goodness in every bite!","Been munching on these for now 10 or so years. Can't believe I didn't write a review earlier! Basically these are your healthier, organic alternative to regular popcorns. You might be surprised by its much firmer texture (than popcorn) at first, but go through a couple, and if you're like me, you'll appreciate the quality crunch and just the right balance of sea salt! I was hooked so fast, I was just chugging the ziplock bag into my mouth for a mouthful of tasty treat, and no, didn't need to reseal the pouch! The spicy version is just as good - it isn't that spicy (it's ""slightly spicy"") and highly addictive. Try both and you will not go back to those greasy popcorns! Yay for Grandpa Po's!"
,,,,,Everything I want in a snack,Great for the munchies or when you just need something to snack on.  I love popcorn so this was just what the doctor ordered. Just perfect for me.
,,,,,Very Good Snack,"This is a very good snack and good for you. Price was good. Shipping not bad, but good for distance."
,,,,,Great snack!,"I tried this snack because it looked healthy, so I didn't expect it to be too great. I was wrong --- it is very very good! I'll buy more when my supply runs low.<br />John D"
,,,,,Love them!,"These are really good!  I find Grandpa Po's Originals to be filling and delicious, and since they're technically whole grain, they are way better to have in the house than Doritos."
,,,,,"Totally satisfying, healthy snack","Granda Po's are the perfect snack when you crave something crunchy and delicious.  They are also very healthy so you can enjoy them guilt-free.  I love all the flavors.  My son begs me for them, so now he's a fan too.  I even shipped them to my brother's platoon in Iraq.  Everyone loved them!"
,,,,,Great stuff! Too expensive on Amazon,I bought some of this. Creates an awesome effect on decorated cakes and candies. Love it! Completely edible.<br /><br />But WAYYY overpriced on Amazon. Usually Amazon is cheaper than buying in stores but these are only $4 at any craft store so $15 is SEVERELY overpriced.
,,,,,Sparkles,It's awesome.  The dust gave my cake pops a great sparkle to it.  I used White and purple candy melts.  I would recommend this to anyone.
,,,,,"Color was not ""Ruby Red""","The product was okay but the color was very different than advertised.  It was a darker pink, not red at all.<br /><br />I tried to use it a couple different ways, and as a relative beginner, I did not find the product easy to use.<br /><br />I tried mixing in with a little vanilla extract in order to ""paint"" it on (I had read this was the best way to do it).  I found that the painting was very streaked and not very consistent.  Maybe someone more experienced will be able to use it more effectively.  In the end, because the red color was important for the cake, I mixed it with red food coloring instead of vanilla extract.  the pearl dust used this way had just a little impact on the color, not a great deal.<br /><br />In the end, I would have experimented more on the best way to use it if the color had been more red.  But as was, I didn't find it super useful and will be unlikely to purchase again.  I hope that other people have a better experience as I very much like the idea of the product."
,,,,,Great adds a little shimmer,My daughter loves painting this stuff on cake pops. It add just a little color if painted on dry but the color is more vibrant if mixed with extract and painted on.
,,,,,great product great service,"we enljoy having Loumidis greek coffee every day.Iam an expert making the coffee. When my mother in law was alive she wanted to have greek coffee every day at four in the afternoon, so kept the trantition"
,,,,,Taste lacks,"Not as tasty as some of the others out there, but for the bulk, I'd pay again."
,,,,,Awesome!,"I highly recommend these candies, they are that best! They are really good for the price. They come individually wraped which is nice, the colors are direrent from picture, they are bright colors which I love, because I can give it to girls and boys! They are also Oriental Traiding Brand and in their website, they have really good reviews for this item just look on their website an look for this item #5/923, I can not be more happy, the kids loves them!"
,,,,,The real deal (ALMOST),"I pass around favorable endorsements very seldom but this is one of those occasions.<br /><br />I'm almost 69 and this bacon would be as almost identical to the bacon I ate if it were a bit saltier and had the rind left on.<br /><br />If you want the old time southern bacon without all the salt and the rind, this is it.<br /><br />I'll admit I do salt the bacon just a tad before I fry it.<br /><br />This is good stuff if you appreciate great bacon."
,,,,,Country Bacon,"The product was fair, not as ""country"" as I would like, but better than you find in a grocery store."
,,,,,Bueno!,Cant make corn tortillas or tamales without masa harina. These folks ship their product in sturdy boxes. Great for making a long journey overseas.
,,,,,It's Cornflour,"It's cornflour, period.  But, ground as only Masa is to make a good corn tortilla. It has great flavor.  Tortillas can be a real pain in the fanny to make.  Too many people worry about how it doesnt look like a commercial tortilla...but, I'll bet you that crooked as it is..it will leave Tia Rosa in the dust.  The hardest part is getting the mix right.  After that all you need is a rolling pin and two pieces of wax paper.  Make a few and you will get the hang.<br /><br />You really don't need a tortilla press.  What you really need is practice."
,,,,,"It's not corn flour, it's masa harina--which is treated with lime.  Gluten-free, though.","Corn flour isn't treated with lime.  Treating corn flour with lime gives it a fairly distinct bitter aftertaste and a more dense construction.  Chocolate chip cookies made with masa harina, which tastes like the tortillas it's meant for? Little bitter bricks with chocolate chips.  eek.<br /><br />(I wish it were corn flour.  As of this writing, none of the major mills in the Americas--that means North and South--make gluten-free corn flour.  Not even Bob's Red Mill is, anymore, bless them for having the integrity to say so--although I hear you can order it from someplace in Canada.)<br /><br />*This is where we cut to the clueless Texas Roadrunner face.*<br /><br />This is masa harina, sorry guys."
,,,,,grape leaves,these make a good and very filling lunch with a little bit of lemon juice squeezed over them.
,,,,,What an hot offer,"With cayenne pepper, it is about the quantity you get for a price and I believe I got a very very good bargain.  Doesn't happen often, but it is so nice when it does.<br /><br />Thanks"
,,,,,It is what is advertised,"Yes, there are higher HU products but this is exactly what is advertised.  I use this to make a tincture to reduce high blood pressure.  Comment if you want more info."
,,,,,very hot!,good product and fast delivery with follow up.<br />90k is very hot and I'm drinking it 3 time a day :)<br />Will buy again.
,,,,,Hot stuff,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0001M0Z3O"">Cayenne Pepper - Ground, 90,000 hu 1 lbs</a><br />This is good cayenne pepper. I found some 150,000 organic once in a specialty store that you had to be really careful with. This 90,000 will light you up and it tastes good. If you want some hot cayenne pepper get this."
,,,,,great stuff,"Good stuff, take it easy if your not used to it. it improves taste of food, better breathing, better circulation, helps with arthritis a bit"
,,,,,Delighted,"This is the best cayenne that I have used.The taste and aroma is a bit more mellow than other 90,000 HU cayenne powder from the past,but definetly delivers the kick!!!"
,,,,,I like it,I actually bought this to use as a squirrel repellant (which it worked fantastically) safe to treat your gardens with. HOWEVER i found myself using this to cook more than anything else. Tastes great when sprinkled over wings
,,,,,MGM,"The pepper is great!!  Plan on using it to keep squirrels off of suet, but will try it for cooking also. Price was great.  One note though, product is pictured in a jar and although it says packaging may be different, it should say sold in pouches somewhere.  I thought I was getting a jar."
,,,,,This cayenne pepper is as advertised: hot!,"I have no idea what a heat unit is, and I kind of doubt Frontier does either, but hey - the proof is in the spicy. And this works. One teaspoon makes four quarts of chili nice and toasty, and two tsp make it killer hot. My local Outpost co-op food store carries Frontier brand spices, and Outpost doesn't sell crap, so I'm satisfied they operate responsibly."
,,,,,EXCELLENT,much better than the stuff you get from the grocery store and so much cheaper...i'll be buying more when i run out...i use it on food and i put it in gel caps to take as a supplement...
,,,,,Excellent Product,"I recommend this product & timliness of the delivery. I especially prefere Cayenne ground with 90,000 heat units. This is a good one.<br />I highly recommend.<br />Stanley E. Ford"
,,,,,review correction,Please correct my original review as I made an error<br /><br />My experience was completely satisfactory-----Excellant product and service!<br /><br />Sorry about the error.<br /><br />S G Lilly
,,,,,VERY HAPPY WITH THIS CAYENNE!!!,THIS SELLER WAS GREAT!!!RECIEVED MY ORDER IN ABOUT 4 DAYS!!! THE CAYENNE IS GREAT!!!NICE FLAVOR AND HOT JUST THE WAY I LIKE IT!!! wILL BE BACK FOR MORE AFTER THE 2LBS ARE GONE!!! THANKS FOR A GREAT PRODUCT AT A GOOD PRICE!!!
,,,,,dissapointed in order,I have placed two orders for the weber grill grinder roasted garlic herb in the past.  I was so disappointing the last time I picked up my order as it was not what I had ordered.  It was citrus twist with garlic.  I just love the garlic and herb grinder and have given my first order away to my family as Christmas gifts.  I now don't even have one bottle for myself.  You can see I have reordered the garlic herb and hope I will receive what I have ordered.  It would be so inconvenient to repackage and return.  If it was possible to buy it in my location I would but it's not available.<br /><br />Very Disappointed<br /><br />Leona<br /><br />The order that I received with the citus garlic was as follows.<br /><br />Transaction Date  11/03/2011<br />Location<br />Amount  $20.94<br />Reference Number  [...]<br />Description  Amazon.com AMZN.COM/BILLWA
,,,,,ADDICTIVELY FANTASTIC!!,"Lana's Snowflake Black Tea with Coconut and Almond has now become my favorite tea. First the smoothness is unbeatable. I found it a bit smoother than the Hanley Vanilla cormoro! Secondly,the aroma changes from the time you smell it in the bag and then brew, it is a great experience. When you taste it you have a wonderful surprise of sweetness and comfort. Sort of a nutty, caramel with vanilla notes, it is the PERFECT Dessert tea. My husband lost 18 lbs by drinking this instead of having ice cream! Now when you present it to friends,let them taste it first. If they go by the  intense aroma in the bag, it is so fresh some  have wrongly thought it was too strong a flavor, but it is not. It is the amazing  freshness they are not used to.  We served this at our wedding vow renewal and it beat out hanleys vanilla cormoro and Paris too.  This tea has filled a gap I have had in my collection, I have searched for a flavor like this over 3 years!!<br />Lana Please keep on creating this tea, I am definitely coming back for more.<br />And thank you for tremendous and fast service... btw, i am sipping this as i write.. YUM!<br />smiles, grace in VT"
,,,,,A tea both my wife and I agree is heavenly.,"The written description of this tea was good enough to get me to put it on my wish list this xmas. My wife prefers the sweeter fruitier teas, such as Republic of Tea's Kiwi Pear, and I generally go for traditional blacks, Prince of Wales, Oolongs, etc. But this tea is perfect for both of us! I always liked good vanilla teas, and some coconut teas always blew me away as well. Our pals at Steep Tea still make some of the best teas in around, so we were pretty game to try this Lana's tea - it always feels good to try out teas by the 'small guys'.<br /><br />Anyway, there was this unbelievably great aroma to this tea that we couldn't pin down until one of our pals pointed out ""This smells like Bailey's!"" Bingo. Need I go on?"
,,,,,SF Tea Lover,"I completely agree w/Grace Brunelle's comments. This the perfect dessert tea. I have given up sugar, but love coconut, and this is the perfect replacement. The smell in the bag is intoxicating, but it mellows to a soft vanilla/almond/coconut smooth sweetness when brewed. I have many excellent teas in my collection, but this beats many of them, especially if you are craving something sweet. Thank you Lana, please keep making (and quickly shipping) this fantastic tea!"
,,,,,"One, one, wonderful","One, one, wonderful ... from the Beach Boys ""Smile"" album.<br />This tea is that ... wonderful aroma and taste.<br />Try it and Smile !!!<br /><br />And .. It always ships on time !!!"
,,,,,Best Tea Ever,"I absolutely love Lana's Snowflake tea! I received a sample when I ordered the Finum Permanet Filter through Amazon (which, by the way, is the best filter I have ever used!). I fell in love with the Snowflake tea and had to order some for myself. It's fantastic!"
,,,,,Absolutely Delicious,I bought this at a shop because it sounded good (I love coconut) and it was awesome!  It's become my favorite tea.
,,,,,Absolutely wonderful,"This tea is my favorite, I've never had any tea that could match it.  Please consider making it in a decaf version so I can curl up and enjoy it in the evening also!"
,,,,,Unique & Addictive,"This tea is very similar to Paromi Coconut Almond I have bought at Whole Foods.  Unfortunately, I don't live near a Whole Foods!  This loose leaf tea is awesome!  I was first put off by what I considered to be higher than normal shipping charges, but the cost of the tea is so CHEAP when compared to buying it in tea-bag form.  I will probably get 50 cups of tea out of this package.  The flavor is so unique...I can't wait to try it this summer in a sun-tea jar."
,,,,,Delicious,"Recieved the tea very quickly with very  helpful, detailed brewing instructions.  Tea is absolutely delicious!!!!!!  Like dessert in a cup!!!!"
,,,,,Snowflake Tea - Decadence in a cup,"My husband and I enjoy a really good cup of tea. Lana's Snowflake Black Tea sounded so interesting and the five star reviews made it simply irresistible - I had to try it. The delivery was very fast and it was nicely packaged. When my husband saw we had new tea he had to open it. The next thing I heard, ""Wow, you have got to smell this"". The aroma is so wonderful, the sweet scent from the coconut and almond fills the air and the hints of vanilla are simply divine. While the fresh aroma is intense the smooth taste is beyond compare, a great substitute to after dinner desserts. Its calming essence makes it great for a quiet evening at home...be prepared to indulge your senses.<br /><br />Snowflake Tea now has to be our favorite tea. I plan to buy it as stocking stuffers for my friends and family. Lana, keep creating this tea, I plan to buy a lot more."
,,,,,A Flavorful Crunch,"The best soda crackers so tempting I've reordered.<br /><br />I will probably not order a third time though because of the high shipping cost... nothing to do with my satisfaction with the product.<br />I hope the company will consider using Amazon Prime.<br />I savor each crunch, delicious.<br />Thanks..."
,,,,,Ex-pat Australian favorite!,"Although Dundee's orange marmalade is stocked everywhere, their hard-to-find ginger preserve is truly incredible. I have tried many other brands but this one is truly classic with the intense ginger flavor I love. Try it on a warm English muffin, crunchy fresh waffles or as a roast chicken glaze."
,,,,,"First jar of preserve that I ate all of, myself","This preserve is really delicious -- aromatic and not too sweet nor too piquant. And it's cut in just the right size pieces for spreading: not too lumpy or too 'jammy.'<br /><br />I've wasted so money on so many different preserves. I eat a few teaspoon-fulls, usually find them too sweet, then they sit in the 'frige until I finally throw them away. This brand, I ate all of in just about 2 months which is really fast, for me. It stayed in edible condition in the fridge up to the last spoonful.<br /><br />Amazon is listing four bottles, each containing 1 pound of preserve, so each bottle costs about $5.50 plus shipping."
,,,,,Best Ginger Preserves Ever,Found these locally in Chicago about 6 months ago.  Amazon's price is high but these are definitely the best I have ever tried.  My wife and I cook with it and just spread it on toast or crackers.  The white jar is also distinctive.
,,,,,Great ginger preserves,"For those who enjoy ginger, the Dundee preserves taste great on crackers and bread.  The texture allows for easy spreading, but it is not runny.  It also stays fresh if stored in the refrigerator."
,,,,,Ginger Day,"On an English muffin, the day starts off best with the mild taste of ginger!"
,,,,,"good product, overpriced","Always used the Robertsons ginger, This production is almost as good, but the price is inflated for the size of the jar.the product was packed well (glass jars) and arrived promptly."
,,,,,"Oh, My! This Stuff Is Delicious!","My nearby Fresh and Easy Market (an English company) has a variety of English fruit spreads and I'm enjoying trying them out. One of the latest is James Keiller & Son Dundee Ginger Preserve. Oh, my! This stuff is just delicious. I've always liked ginger, but as a spread it's just fantastic! What a nice flavor for my breakfast toast! I can hardly wait to try this out on other folks. Or I could give a jar here and there as gifts. I'm sure they'd be appreciated.<br /><br />Gary Peterson"
,,,,,Great but expensive here,This spread is just right but costs only about six dollars locally.<br />price with shipping here is ridiculous!
,,,,,Broken and not what picture showed,Second time I have reported this. One jar broken and order<br />Not what pictured. Jam same but jar different. I know my ginger<br /><br />This not same.
,,,,,Pricing is out of line - 2X the price of buying them from Nespresso,"You can order the same products online from Nespresso for approx $25 AND you can specify exactly what you want to buy rather than taking a mixture of items, some of which you may not like.<br /><br />Nespresso makes GREAT coffee and GREAT machines. The Nespresso capsule offers posted on Amazon however are all by third parties who prey on people who don't know better."
,,,,,50 Nespresso Capsules Variety,"great coffees & I enjoyed the most when friends come over for coffee, it gives lot of fun to try out all the flovor"
,,,,,"Great aroma, no after-burn","I picked this off the shelf without any research, and my husband, who's pretty particular about his vodka (and tequila, and rum, but that's another story) loved this. I'm not a vodka drinker, but even I had to admit the first smell and taste were extremely pleasant and he said it tasted wonderful straight and excellent in mixed drink. Made by two guys from Pennsylvania using a copper still --definitely worth the price."
,,,,,ONLY SUNFLOWER BUTTER WE WILL BUY,"oUR 3 YEAR OLD SON WAS DIAGNOSED WITH BEING ALLERGIC TO SOY AND PEANUTS. THIS IS THE ONLY SUNFLOWER BUTTER THAT WE HAVE FOUND THAT IS FREE OF BOTH ALLERGENS AND NOT PROCESSED ON SHARED EQUIPMENT.  THIS IS THE ONLY PRODUCT WE BUY NOW.  OUR SON LIKES IT ON PB&J, CRACKERS, ON CELERY AND BY THE SPOONFUL AND WITH NO SUGARS ADDED MUCH MORE HEALTHY FOR HIM."
,,,,,delicious!,"This stuff is pure, natural, creamy goodness. Perfect for using in recipes and for eating straight out of the tub!"
,,,,,Best tasting 'butter' around,"Since Swanson's Sun Butter only contains roasted Sunflower Seeds and no other ingredients, it is the only nut butter product we buy!"
,,,,,"best sun butter ever, by far!","This is a sun butter with absolutely fresh roasted-sunflower-seed taste. I was pleasantly surprised from the first taste. Shipping is very reasonable also. I trust Swansons, but still I was astounded by how good this tastes!"
,,,,,100% Pure Organic Sunflower Butter - no soy here!,"I originally ordered this product as an allergy-free alternative to peanut butter.  I have many serious food allergies (peanut, walnut, almond, dairy, gluten, corn, soy), and another popular brand of sunflower seed butter (sunbutter) is manufactured on equipment that also processes soy (not just in a shared facility, but on shared equipment)!  I am thrilled to say that this sunflower butter is not only smooth and creamy with a delicious taste, but it's organic, has no added salt or sugar, and is free of other allergens.  Give it a try, I bet you will love it!"
,,,,,Better than Peanut butter,"When a peanut butter addict like me says this is better, it is saying a lot<br />Wonderfull flavor, Very creamy texture, almost to creamy, more like a puree.<br />Not to oily or sweet, just right. doesn't stick to the roof of your mouth.<br />Organic makes it even better and healthier"
,,,,,Good plain natural Sunflower butter.,"No sugar or anything added to the product. I have to add honey to it when I eat it and it tastes fine with honey.<br />Quality seems fine to me, it seems a bit oily compared to peanut butter, but it never gets hard like peanut butter does even keeping it in the fridge."
,,,,,Great Substitute for Peanut Butter,"Although Sun Butter tastes like sunflower seeds and nothing like peanut butter, it still tastes great and has a smooth creamy texture.  The only drawback I noticed was that it's a little runny compared to peanut butter."
,,,,,weird stuff,"tastes - burnt, roasted, slightly rotten sunflower seed taste; gritty, bland - no salt,sugar only seeds. would not eat if it was free."""
,,,,,Tastes great!,Just received this butter yesterday and we are already using it to make sandwiches with jelly. Tastes great without having any salt or sugar added. Highly recommend!
,,,,,next best thing to making your own,This organic sunflower butter is the only one I can find with the least additives. My only alternative is to make my own and this saves time.
,,,,,Delicious!,I ordered this product because I wanted alternative to peanut butter and it is organic. I actually prefer the creamy sunflower taste over peanut butter now...definitely would buy again!
,,,,,Tastes like Peanut Butter,"This stuff is great!!!!! I'm allergic to peanuts ( just happened over night ) and I miss having a PBJ, so this is the next best thing to it. :-) Truly, this butter is all that and then some...."
,,,,,simply awesome.,"pure and organic. no salt, no sugar, no poison :)  what more can you ask for?  i keep mine in the fridge and it stays soft and easily spoonable.  i use it in my banana cacao smoothies and it tastes good.  warning: not as good as peanut butter for THIS recipe, but it's better for you so i can accept the difference in taste. i admit, peanutbutter and chocholate is a better combo... and change is never easy... but what's your health worth to you?  this is all im buying from now on."
,,,,,Very good organic Sunbutter,"Per the manufacturer, the product is organic and only made from Sunflower seeds.  It tastes very natural and fresh.  I would highly recommend if you like the natural taste of Sunflower seeds."
,,,,,Easy Now tea is great!,"I put 1-2 teabags of Easy Now in an entire teapot let it steep for 20-30 min and have some before bed. No matter when I got to sleep, I always wake up 7-8 hours later, feeling good, and without having woken up in the middle of the night. (except maybe to use the restroom, but I always fall back asleep instantly) Its also great anytime during the day to just calm your nerves, it won't make you sleepy. This is easily my favorite calming tea."
,,,,,perfect size,"These are perfect for portion control.  I like the stand up bag too, great for putting the candy in the fridge as opposed to the flat bags.  My husband and I are both trying to lost weight, and to be able to grab one of these 70-90 calorie chocolate packs from M&M are great.<br />I was also very pleased with how they were shipped.  You have to pay a little for 2 freezie packs, but that's fine and then it came in a styrofoam box to keep the chocolate from melting.<br />I'll definitely order these from amazon again."
,,,,,Nice mix - damaged peanut M&Ms,"One problem with fun-sized bagged candies is that they are lots of small products in individual wrapping, that means that you have that many more changes of something getting squished or ruined. I've always wondered when they're cheaper than in regular stores or warehouses, if the quality is a little lower.<br /><br />In this case I handed out a lot of the candies and while everything was eaten, there were some major problems with both of my bags of peanut M&Ms. Almost all of them were crushed and there were peanuts with a little bit of M&M stuck to them and then a lot of M&M dust. The snickers were not squished and the twix sticks were all intact, so not sure what happened.<br /><br />That being said, these deals that Amazon are fantastic and they pack them very well. Definitely worth it if you need to buy it in bulk. Just, with all bagged candies, be forewarned that all the pieces may not come in totally intact."
,,,,,GREAT- if the price is right,when i ordered these 2 bags it was only $18_ today it's $37.....so i paid $9 for a little more than 2 pounds bag with  free s/h via amazon prime membership.<br /><br />it had more plain m&m's than any other candy- but that could have just been my bags- you may find differently- all the bags were sealed and none of the candy was broken or crushed- it is fresh and the expire or 'best if used' by date is JULY 2013- so long shelf life.  i also sent a couple of bags to my senior parents who love chocolate.<br /><br />if you found this helpful- please click on the 'yes' box-- thanx
,,,,,Great Fruity Taste,"I really like the fruity taste of this tea - so much so that I can actually drink it without sugar.  If you like fruity teas, you should try this product."
,,,,,This is my favorite tea,"When I read the other review of this tea, I had to write.  This tea has a wonderful, balanced flavor that mixes the tartness of raspberry and the sweetness of peach to come up with a smooth blend.  I usually want a little honey in my tea, but this one doesn't really need it.  Makes a great iced tea, too!"
,,,,,It's GREAT!,"I am a fan of the Bellini drink, white peach puree and Prosecco (a Italian sparkling wine) and I was NOT disappointed.  I mainly brew it for ice tea.  I disagree with some of reviewers in that not only do you taste the raspberries and peaches you can also taste the sparking wine.  This is my primary drink in the summer.  To give it a little kick I will sometimes add a peach liquor or peach flavored rum.  I recommend it highly"
,,,,,Couldn't stand the taste or smell,"I almost never write reviews, but I thought I would for this one.  I'm pretty open to tastes of anything, but something about the smell and taste of this product was really bad.  It tasted ""off"" almost.  I'm really disappointed because I had hoped to like it and I love fruity green teas, but this was NO GOOD.  I'd strongly recommend trying a sample of this (if possible) before buying.  Sorry Zhena's.... maybe I'll like another flavor.  I haven't given up on you yet."
,,,,,Not very Bellini...,"This tea has mostly all raspberry flavours with little to no peach at all.  I added a peach green tea bag when I brew it & a little sweetener.  It's very tough to taste the ""sparkling wine"" flavour, either.  At best, it's a nice raspberry green tea, but it's certainly not what I was expecting & hoping for.  If I bought it from a store, I would have taken it back."
,,,,,AWESOME!!!,My husband and I absolutely love this gum that is actually good for you!!! It keeps flavor for a long time!!!!
,,,,,"great gum, will buy more","A bit pricy, but well worth it to avoid the garbage found in other gums.  Made in USA and delicious."
,,,,,Delicious,"I love B-Fresh cinnamon gum! It tastes great, it's good for you and it temporarily freshens your breath. Now the flavor doesn't last a long time but with 100 pieces you have plenty to chew on."
,,,,,Good Gum,"I love this gum, but i gave it 4 stars because the flavor does not last long...  You'll enjoy it though."
,,,,,"The Bubble Gum is better, but B Fresh Rocks.",Great for when you're pregnant or nursing...no artificial anything....INCLUDING NO Aspartame.  Yay!  The Bubble gum is the best gum in the whole world.  LOVE this gum.
,,,,,Greenies,Wow!  Great price! I'll never buy these at the pet store again!  About 6 months ago we started giving our rat terriers Greenies after my vet told me about them.  We couldn't afford $400 +  each to have our dog's teeth cleaned (and there is just no way these dogs would let me brush their teeth) so we tried these.  What a difference it made!!!!  The tartar an plaque buildup on my 11 yr old girl is almost completely gone and my 6 yr old boy's teeth look like I had them professionally cleaned.  The added bonus is Greenies make their breath smell great and my dogs love the taste of them!
,,,,,My dog is SO happy,"Greenies arrived promptly, are fresh with an expire date thirteen months from now.  Great price to keep my dogs favorite treat on hand for many months to  come.  Yes, she chewes through them quickly but she loves them so much, i dont care. This is the best price I've ever seen on Greenies so we stocked up!"
,,,,,Great price on a Great product,"My 4 border collies expect one of these each night before bed.  I've learned how important it is to create regular routines to keep these active ""wired"" dogs calm, and there's no way I have time to brush their teeth each nite, even if they'd let me.  But this can get very expensive.  When I found them here at this price, I ordered tons.  Then went back and ordered more, figuring the price would increase to that on other sites.  It had increased a bit, but still a great price. Entirely Pets delivered a bit late due to supply problems, but that was okay since I had just received enough to last a month!"
,,,,,"good soup, too many dents","The photo shows potato and carrot pieces in the butternut squash base but upon opening a can, there are no potato or carrot pieces to be found, unlike the cans I've bought from a local grocery store.  I guess this must be a change in Wolfgang Puck's recipe but the photo on the can does not represent the contents anymore.  Several cans out of the twelve pack were delivered dented, although none seriously.  Packing with better filling could have prevented dents in transit."
,,,,,Healthy and Delicious,I've been buying these at the grocery store every week for a year. My husband and I eat WP's soups every day for lunch. I am so happy Amazon can deliver to my doorstep.
,,,,,"Its not as GREAT as the resturant version, but its still good","I had ordered a case of this incredible soup, based on my experience of ordering it at the the Dallas Fort Worth resturant. It was so incredible that I ordered another container to go, couldnt stop thinking about it during my meeting in Dallas and ordered two more before my flight back to California. I went out of my way to go to this terminal so I could order it again.<br /><br />So when I got the canned version....not as impressed. Oh well."
,,,,,"Not Creamy, But Signature","This soup is advertised as ""creamy,"" however when it arrived it was ""signature.""  Puck changed the recipe of the Creamy Butternut Squash Soup and is now calling it Signature Butternut Squash Soup.  It does not taste the same (and is not as good) as the original recipe."
,,,,,Delicious!,"Months ago I had my first butternut squash soup, hand made at a fancy restaurant. I do not like canned soups... but I saw this in our local grocers, and remembering the soup I had at the restaurant, I decided to try it. It was delicious! It is my favorite lunch go-to now. I have added shredded roasted turkey to make it heartier, but as for taste it is wonderful. I order the case on Amazon, which is cheaper than my local store. I also tried their french onion soup which is really good. I have avoided the others simply because in their best form, I don't like chicken noodles and tomato soups, but for the 2 I do like and have tried, they really made something from canned soups, and I'd recommend them."
,,,,,Best soup ever.,"Very good soup, light and creamy. Added curry gives just right spice to the  taste. Love it! Highly recommend to try it, you won't put your spoon down until you ate it all."
,,,,,wonderful soup BUT....,"The soup is rich and tasty, but DON'T buy it from Amazon.  The packaging is so poor that the cans arive dented as did the replacement shipment. I got my money back but now have to pay more to buy this wonderful soup from my local grocer."
,,,,,"Tastes good, but not real healthy","I have eaten in various restaurants operated by Wolfgang Puck and have always found the food to be delicious.  This soup is no exception.  The only problem is that it is exceedingly high in sodium, fat, cholesterol and calories in general. Per servings totals are 200 calories, total fat 11g, saturated fat 8g, cholesterol 30 mg, sodium 540 mg! This sodium total is 22% of what you should get for the whole day!  By comparison, Campbell's Chicken with Rice soup has 70 calories, total fat 1.5g, saturated fat .5g, cholesterol 5 mg, sodium 820 mg.  Almost double the sodium (salt) but much healthier in every other category.  The bottom line is, if you want healthy soup, make it yourself."
,,,,,Highly addictive,"This is, quite simply, the best Mac 'n Cheese on the market. It is our go-to meal for when we haven't gone to the grocery store and desperately need a dinner.<br /><br />My tips:<br />+ Add the ""optional"" butter, you know you want to.<br />+ Personally I find that it needs just the smallest pinch of salt to bring out its flavors<br />+ Some fresh ground pepper rounds it out<br /><br />If you like this stuff, I also highly recommend the Annie's snack mix (I think also available on Amazon). I believe Annie's makes both products with their patented Bunny Cocaine(tm). The dangerous addiction I've developed is totally worth it."
,,,,,Yummy,This Mac & Cheese is really creamy without tasting processed and it has the right amount of salt. Very good product overall.
,,,,,great price!,"I have always been a fan of Annie's products, and since I'm overseas at the moment, I didn' have access to the products. That's where Amazon comes in! The price is very good-almost the same as buying them in the store in the states-and the product came in great shape and the expiration date is not soon either!<br />As for the product itself, I think the sauce can use less salt, but other wise I love it! Natural ingredients and it takes less than 10 minutes for me to make it =)"
,,,,,Love Annie's,I am a big fan of anything Annie's so it is no surprise I give these 5 stars. There is simply no comparison between 'the chessiest' and the truly chessiest mac & cheese - which is Annie's. I enjoy the white cheddar the most.
,,,,,So so,This is twice as expensive as basic box Mac and Cheese.  It is just so so in taste.  If you check the ingredients it is not much different than other Mac and Cheese.  The cost does not justify the ordering.  I will not be ordering from Amazon again.  The cost is much cheaper at a big box chain.
,,,,,Great Mac & Cheese!,"Annie's has a great line of food, and this macaroni and cheese is great. Kids like it; grown-ups like it!!"
,,,,,Great Quality,"Our family really enjoys this shells and cheese. I love the convenience of Mac and Cheese, but usually the flavor is horrible. Annie's tastes great and is better for you. Can't beat that."
,,,,,THIS IS THE BEST MAC AND CHEESE,To all those who complain of the taste......you arent making it right.<br /><br />I know because sometimes i put in a little too much milk....or whatever. But when you make this stuff right it really rules. Its also good to know that im not eating as many chemicals as other kinds of mac and cheese.<br /><br />I find the family size serving better personally.
,,,,,"All natural, but bland","It's all natural, no artificial color, no weird ingredients . . . but it also has no taste. The sauce is thin and runny and doesn't have much flavor. If you need a boxed dinner in a pinch, then by all means use a product with natural ingredients. But if you want good mac and cheese, stick with homemade."
,,,,,Yummy!,Very yummy!  My kids and I loved it!  Cute story on the box too!
,,,,,No more fluorescent orange macaroni & cheese!,"No long, frightening lists of chemical additives, either. Nice to find something quick and easy that I don't have to feel guilty giving my kids from time to time. I have no problem paying a little bit of a premium for Annie's, it's well worth it.<br /><br />Oh, and for anyone who is getting lumps, take the package directions at face value and mix the cheese separately, then add the pasta."
,,,,,great natural alternative,My whole family really enjoys Annie's mac & cheese! The reason I gave it 4 stars was due to the high salt content---common to all boxed dinners.
,,,,,Creamy and  Delicious,All Annie's products are excellent. Beats the other name brands<br /><br />for flavor. It's organic with no additives. Good item to keep on hand for a quick lunch.
,,,,,It may be good if I could get the lumps out,"I have been disappointed with this product.  We have always enjoyed Annie's products & have never had a problem, until now.  The ""cheese"" was so solidly clumped that I was unable to make a sauce without lumps.  I have used 3 different packages from my order & have had the problem with all of them.  I am not sure if it is the result of a manufacturing issue or if they have been sitting on a shelf too long in the warehouse.  Either way, beware."
,,,,,Organic is great but...,"I love Annie's, but this had no taste, very bland and unappealing. I would not purchase this again, but worst of all I'm stuck with 6 boxes...boo!"
,,,,,Good quality - not 'getting' whatever flavor difference...,"I bought this and a grinder (and a couple other varieties of course salts) as a gift for my spouse at Christmas.  I know he enjoys the visual appeal of the coarse ground salt and I was tired of buying the $2.99 use-and-toss grinders of salt at the grocery store.<br /><br />As far as this salt goes, you should NOT use it in a grinder because it is too moist.  I did not know this until after I had purchased it.  I still use it as a finishing salt, but for the use I had in mind, grinding on food, it does not work."
,,,,,Best (and easiest) Bread Ever!,"This has to be the best and easiest bread machine mix I've come across.  Incredibly simple directions and impossible to fail.  Plus the loafs come out perfect everytime (I've had issues in the past with getting whole wheat flours to rise as well as white flours).  I've purchased this ""collection"" several times and will continue to do so."
,,,,,Wonderful bread,"I originally got this bread thru amazon but now buy it directly from the manufacturer so I can get free shipping when buying $75 worth (that's a lot of bread mixes).  It's truly delicious, easy to make in my bread machine and there are a lot of different flavors.  The yeast does come in separate little packs - in both the individual and the multi packs.<br />It's a little more expensive than the Hodgson Mill bread (also very good & available thru amazon), but a much greater variety."
,,,,,"Great product, great service!",I could not be more pleased with the bread machine mixes.  They are delicious.  The service was outstanding.
,,,,,Terrible!,"I bought a new bread machine and bought this collection of bread mixes as well as some single mixes to try it out.  The single mixes worked well as they included yeast packaged separately in the mix.  My machine states clearly not to get the yeast wet, to put it on top of the flour away from the water.  The mixes in this collection have the yeast in the flour, not packaged separately.  The bread failed to rise at all.  Why would they package the yeast separately in the single mixes and not in the multi packs?  Along with the Heartland Collection I also purchased the Baker's Choice Collection.  I am throwing them all out.  Don't waste your money."
,,,,,bread,The bread has a good taste but does not rise properly and only makes 1/2 loaf.  I checked the temp of the water as suggested with bad results.  After raising the temp to 100 degrees I got it to rise to 3/4 loaf.  Pretty expensive for the quality and I won't buy again.
,,,,,HAPPY Healthy Dog's,"I first purchased this food at the Pomona Pet Expo this year and as I do all my cooking for my animals I was looking for a natural grain free dry to add to their wet.  I learned that feeding your dogs the right food from an early age is key to keeping them healthy and with you for as long as possible.<br /><br />This by far is one of the best Natural foods I have purchased and my dogs just (Love) it..  The Holistic Primitive is high in Protein and very well tolerated by sensitive stomachs.  This food has never been recalled and is made in it's own plant, unlike most major brands out there that are manufactured at the same plant and only under different names.  The price I find to be fare, as I have paid much higher for other Holistic food which was not received well by my dogs.<br /><br />I highly recommend Earthborn Natural food for anyone who really knows the importance of feeding your ""companions"" healthy food and for those who really Love their Pet's.."
,,,,,Love this food!,"My main reason for purchasing this dog food was that I wanted a food made here in the U.S., of natural ingredients and not made in a plant where chemicals are processed.<br />Recently I have lost 2 of my beloved small animals to a company who produces pet foods in the same plant as chemicals, pesticides, and other cleaning agents. It is my belief that carelessness and greed led to contaminated small animal food that killed my 2 pets.<br /><br />I have a 65lb German Shepherd/Aussie mix with a leg injury, and joint problems. She has always been very active & full of energy for her age of 8 years old. In the past I've tried either making her food or searching out holistic foods that are made here in the U.S. with natural ingredients.<br /><br />We started out with a small bag of this food at first to see if she would eat it. Immediately she loved it! She had no stomach upset, even though her stomach is sensitive. Right away her coat started getting softer & shinier. There wasn't as much problems with her joints and leg injury as before and I did notice even more energy in her!<br /><br />Now that I've been feeding her this for a while her coat has continued to soften, looks shinier & no more scratching! She's maintained her regular weight without gaining any. Her energy level is amplified and she's showing very little discomfort in her joints & with her leg injury. What I love best is that she eats every last bite of this food when its feeding time, when before she would only pick at her food. I've fed her other brands of holistic, natural and organic foods and none of them were this much of a hit with her. This food really has made a difference in her overall health, coat and energy levels. None of the other foods made her coat this soft!<br /><br />These are bite sized pieces of food that an older or smaller dog would be able to eat. Mine doesn't like big chunks of food, she prefers the smaller bites so this one is perfect for her. Oh, and upon opening this bag the scent is like meat not bread or preservatives in other foods. This food isn't greasy either like many of the others we've tried in the past that leave stains on the floor if it drops and she misses a piece.<br /><br />I'd definitely recommend this food to everyone who has a small or large dog. The differences you will notice right away in your dog will make you a believer in this food as well!"
,,,,,Best value in grain free dog food!,Earthborn is the best grain free dog food and it is reasonably priced. This food is calorie dense and so good for your dogs.
,,,,,Good for dogs that are food intolerant,"I have a great dane - she is very food intolerant; she cannot tolerate brown rice, beef, lamb, sweet potato nor large amounts of broccoli, spinach, peas, and not too much fiber.  I chose this dog food because it has 3 meat proteins -chicken, turkey & fish, no rice, and small amounts of vegetables and is low in fiber.  This dog food has worked extremely well for her.  She no longer has soft stools, her coat is much better, she doesn't have itching problems and she likes it.  It is high calorie - so she only gets 4 1/2 cups per day for her 140 lbs."
,,,,,"Solid puppy poo, happy little man!","My puppy loves the stuff.  His poo is proper consistency since switching, his coat is beautiful, and he treats the stuff like, well, a treat.  Can't wait to try the other flavors with him.<br /><br />The ingredients list is tough to beat for the price.<br /><br />-Jim"
,,,,,High Quality that shows,"I had to look for a new food for my 100 pound puppy.<br />She has a sensitive stomach and sheds extensively when in that phase. And as many of you know,  it is hard to find good food.<br />I have ordered 3 small bags of different food/brands, this one was the first on the list to try.<br /><br />After 2 days, the coat of my dog got better and softer too. I would have not thought that it would work so fast.<br />Poop stayed solid (I didn't have a problem with that on the previous food, but its important) and it doesn't have a nasty smell anymore, as with the previous food. Great again!<br />She still sheds a little but the coat is getting much much nicer and I am confident that it is a matter of a few more days until it is in outstanding condition.<br /><br />***After 4 days, the shine of my dogs skin is definitely noticeable. This food is high quality and it shows on your dog. We also got rid of the nasty gas which is as well a great indicator of a good food. I recommend this food over Acana, Orijen or other foods with high protein levels, as it is grain free!!! (very important).<br /><br />As for the price, Amazon is a fabulous website (& I do have Prime), however I was able to get 2 bags for $39.94/bag WITH shipping included on another website! And as I am typing this, I got additional on time 10% off .. so not even with Prime I would be able to get to that price.<br /><br />Anyway, as far as the food goes, it is very very good. Just be careful with the high protein levels, not all dogs might do well with it. Get a small bag and see how it works and of course mix it in with current food. If it doesn't work (lot of gas and loose stool after a week or more), try a different brand with less protein. You might want to look at Precise Holistic, Fromm Gold or Canidea alternatives. Very good foods but the protein is lower. Get small bags, try one, mix in little by little, if it doesn't work, go back to the previous food and than start with the other bag.<br /><br />In case of questions I will be happy to help.<br /><br />***UPDATE: So after about two weeks of use, the coat is shinier as EVER, its absolutely beautiful. The last time I remember her coat being so shiny was when she was a puppy. There is a little gas now and than, but nothing horrible (and I do feed my dog at night, so her stomach works during the night), stool is solid and still no smell. I also notice my dog shaking her head less because of ears, food CAN cause ear and eye infection, so that is satisfying too. As for the shedding, it has almost stopped. Its 80% better!!!<br /><br />This is definitely the best food we have tried in 18 months. We have tried around 10-12 different brands. That gives you an idea of how good it is. Also, it is ridiculously cheap, if you know, where to buy it. This food, under $40! is without a doubt, the best food money can buy. Well, at least for us it is."
,,,,,Healthier Dogs because of Earthborn!,"This is the best dog food!  I have seven dogs, three over the age of 14 and they are as spry and energetic as dogs half their age.  We went grain-free years ago after one of our dogs got cancer.  I began reading about excess carbohydrates and how BAD they are for our dogs (and us)...Initially we used EVO because it was great and it was the only grain-free availble.  We were very happy with it until the price went through the roof!  We tried several different grain-free food over the next year or so.  Some the dogs just didn't like.  Some aggravated my Lhasa Apso's allergies.  A couple of my dogs are susceptible to yeast infections and the EVO had curtailed that problem but it came back with other foods.  Finally we tried Earthborn's Grain-Free line and VOILA!  They love it! The price is right, no allergies or infections...everyone is healthy and happy!This is the best food around and the price is right."
,,,,,Love this dog food,"Since switching our golden retrieve from his regular dog food to grain-free, his skin allergies are much lessened.  And this grain-free dog food is great.  It smells good even to me.  And to see it available at Amazon with the Super Saver Free Shipping is wonderful!"
,,,,,Great food for those we love,"When I first got my dog I started her out with Innova. She liked it at first and then would not eat it unless it was mixed with wet food. I then changed her to Taste of the Wild, which (pun intended) she was wild about. She loved breakfast and dinner now. However, after one bag I took her off TotW because the company that makes it has had recalls with other dog food brands they make. Though TotW was never on the recall list I loved my dog too much to risk it. I didn't have a lot of dog food options for my area and I was not about to buy her dog food from Wal-Mart. All of which contain the ingredient animal digest which I am keeping her from. A friend suggested Earthborn, which is what she feeds her dog, and was also sold in my area. And just as much as she loved TotW she loved Earthborn (probably more). She was soon an Oliver Twist and was asking for more. This food makes me happy with the good ingredients that are used and her coat shows it. I love this product and so does my dog."
,,,,,Not good,"I bought this because the ingredients seem to be ok but for some reason it made my dogs have to go outside at least 3 times each night, overnight for the 2 weeks we gave this to them.  We changed back to Origen, a food they do well on and the middle of the night bathroom trips stopped in 2 days. Also, my older dog tends to get really ""diggy"" when she is eating something not good for her and with this food she was constantly digging at the couch!  I have no idea what is wrong with this food, none of the ingredients stand out to me as being the cause but something in it really messed my puggies up!"
,,,,,Yummy!,"I have to disagree with another reviewer; I did not find this PB gritty at all.  I always but natural PB without any added sugar and also did not find this too sweet.  It has a nice, not overpowering, taste of maple.  Great snack on rice cakes!"
,,,,,"Sugar, lots. Maple, not so much","The problem with this peanut butter is the use of ""evaporated cane juice"" which is a coy way of saying ""raw sugar"". Accent--on the SUGAR. The sugar is gritty and overpowers the peanut taste and the maple. It wasn't very maple-y. It was gritty, sweet and pretty much not great. Maybe the ""cane juice"" crystallized to the low moisture content of peanut butter. Anyway, it was a loser.<br /><br />I had heard much hype about this peanut butter, started by someone who has a peanut butter sandwich restaurant in New York. I happen to like PBJ and celery with pb--a tablespoon of peanut butter is a fairly good snack even if you are watching your food intake but this peanut butter is too sugary for my tastes. I gave it two stars--if you are making a confection or cookies, it could be very good, but as eat-alone peanut butter, I found it way too sweet and gritty for my tastes."
,,,,,THE DRINK OF CHOICE FROM HELL,"This superb tasting drink was used at the turn of the century for medicinal purposes as it purportedly had calming , but hallucinogenic effects. Thought to have same effects as THC but was disproved in 1999. But still , it is a very popular drink if mixed properly . Which is dissolving sugar through an absinthe spoon and mixing with vodka . Aptly named TNT. The drink was somewhat popularized by the character Inspector Frederick Abberline, played by Johnny Depp in the movie FROM HELL based upon Jack The Ripper."
,,,,,So refreshing and tasty,My vodka tonics have never been so refreshing.  I wish I would have ordered two cases now as my husband and I are going through far too much.
,,,,,Could not be happier!,I ordered this and several other plants from this seller.<br /><br />I was quite suprised to find that the plant was much larger than I expected (with a full six heads on it!) and well packed. Every plant I got in this shipment is thriving and happy. It has been two weeks now and nothing has failed to thrive. This is more than I can say about others that I have bought from!<br /><br />I will be buying from this company again.
,,,,,Little Venus Fly Trap,"I got this from my mother and love it! Named him Harold and though I don't have any flies to give him, he is growing well. You have to be diligent and make sure your trim any heads that start to turn black, and not let the plant dry out, but isn't that much work. I can't wait to get a bell jar for him and keep him in my windowsill."
,,,,,Item arrived damaged,"I just received the plant.  I paid extra for a quick delivery to secure the plant's condition.  It arrived on time, however it arrived wrapped only in moist news paper,without any protection for the plant.  The plant is completely smashed. This was, for me, a complete waste of my time and money.  I paid more for shipping than for the item itself and it didn't do a bit of good.  Very disappointing."
,,,,,"Chomping vegetables, Batman","My Venus fly trap arrived promptly and in great condition! Thanks for the great service! Amazon is forcing me to write more words against my will because they are fascists.  Have a great day, everyone!"
,,,,,Good Service,"I ordered this item and was not pleased when it arrived, however the seller promptly contacted me to make things right. They refunded my purchase in full after requesting a photo of the item. Their response was quick and much appreciated. I will likely not purchase plants online any longer, however, if I do, I would not hesitate to consider this seller again mainly because of their customer service."
,,,,,venus flytrap,this plant appears to be dead on arrival.... ive had in full sun since arrival and its leaves and stems are pink and not growing at all ide order another one but it will probably die in the slow shipping as well 20.00 for a dead weed... no thanks they wouldnt let me submit this review with out clicking a star... not even worth one star note the picture they used for this product has six more branches than mine...i have three
,,,,,No issues = happy customer,"Healthy plant received on time.  No issues, just the way I like it.  :-)"
,,,,,educational plant,"There was a little damage in shipment which might be expected, but it is growing and catching flies...with a little help!"
,,,,,Not packaged for shipment,"Ordered this plant to remedy a fruit fly invasion. The amazon shipping was acceptable, but the manufacturer does not create the packaging to facilitate any shipment, unless they were to put ""This side up"" on the box. The dirt was everywhere but where it was supposed to be and the plant (Audrey) was upside down, roots up in the box. If I had found one locally I would have bought it there. Hoping Audrey survives, but I don't have high hopes.<br />EDIT: Audrey is now deceased. Do not recommend."
,,,,,DOA,"Plant was dead on arrival and was mangled in its container, probably better to buy one locally. I dont think its gonna make it...."
,,,,,Dont get discouraged!,"My new friend arrived with quite a bit of damange and only 2 heads, one crushed, I was so upset, but I put the moss back into the pot snuggly around the base of the plant gave it bottled water and plenty of sun and now, I have 12 heads and a very strong plant! He bounced back so well! Eats flys and is now bright red and green!"
,,,,,a little twisted,it came in good shape altho the plant came a little twisted and two were dead but worth every penny and six head were still alive very happy
,,,,,Pretty nice plant!!!,"The plant looked great the day it arrived. With that said, the arrival took an extra week to get here. After the first day one of the heads turned blacked and i had to remove it. I give it 4 hours of direct sunlight a day and always keep the media wet. I never use tap water. Only rain and purifies water. I still have yet to see any of the heads open. I'm very nervous that they will not ever open. Maybe they will send me another one :/"
,,,,,Great Starter plant,"Item arrived in less than a week. Packaging was great. Old newspaper to fill in black space, and the leaves of the plant were tucked inside of a clear plastic cup to keep them from getting crushed.  There was a disposable heat pack that was placed inside to raise the humidity.<br /><br />All leaves were green and healthy, not many traps were closed. It had two adult plant, one juvenile one. I separated them to give them more room in a hanging pot because the three inch pot wouldn't have been long enough for their roots (They like over 4 inches of room for their roots if it can be helped). Fast forward 6 months, my collections has grown, and these original Venus Fly Traps have  been propagating with secondary growth points. They're growing like weeds!<br /><br />Don't forget, they like sun and distilled water. But be careful when you first get them. Put them in partial shade for a few days to avoid sun burning."
,,,,,It died three days after receiving it.,The plant was upside down in the box and I had to put the roots back inside the planter.  It never came out of shock and turned black and died.
,,,,,great,I received my plant it was in great condition!!!  I have a question the box says its supposta stay in box for terrium. im a little confused how is it supposta catch flies if its in a box.. can anyone tell me the direction in  a not so confusing way lol
,,,,,Venus Flytrap,"Hi  - ordered the Venus fly trap...very quick service, nice vendor, but the plant died and turned black...over the next 3 days after we got it..."
,,,,,dissapointment,"i had a second plant to replace the first one. it to came in sad shape,<br />i should of went to a local nursery at least then i would of got a good plant.<br />dont waste your time with this vender."
,,,,,"healthy, interesting plant",this plant arrived packaged Excellently.  it was very healthy and came with good instructions for growing.  we will enjoy raising these.
,,,,,Good plant,I was very pleased with my venus fly trap when I received it.  It was in good shape and came very quickly.  We have been having a lot of fun feeding it bugs.
,,,,,Dead on Arrival,The plant arrived dead.  It cost as much to ship.  I did not want to hassle with any kind of return.  I should know better than to buy a plant on line.
,,,,,The worst purchase I ever made from Amazon,"I received an undersized, sickly plant that could not be nurtured back to health. What was I thinking ordering a plant over the Internet? Never again!"
,,,,,Small,"It only lasted 2 days. Came mostly dead. Glad it was only 10 bucks. It was also very small so. The flies I wanted it to eat , it couldn't."
,,,,,My family loves it,I bought this as a gift for my sister and her family who live in Arizona. They were so excited when it came and it was small enough to not be a bother but big enough to be interesting and pretty. They were pleased. It came almost right away (days!) and the package was in good shape.
,,,,,Love my plant,"My plant arrived quickly and packaged very well. Almost too well cause I was so anxious to see it and it took a bit of time to unwrap it:) The first day it didn't want to eat because of the stress from shipping, but now it's eating the bugs I give it. Everybody is so intriuged with it and we all love it!!"
,,,,,It's a winner,"We love the little Venus Flytrap,<br />it's healthy, hungry, and producing new shoots.<br />It arrived quickly and in good condition.<br />Altogether a positive experience."
,,,,,Fly Trap,Fly traps were for a science fair experiment. They arrived promptly and were in very good shape.All approximately the same size-important for the experiment.
,,,,,Not so great...Bummer.,"I ordered this plant for my seven year old daughter.  She was extremely excited to get it so I even ordered the express 1 day shipping, which I paid over ten dollars for, and it still took over a week to reach my house.  Once it got to my house, I opened the box expecting it to be a fully established plant, which would look similar to the picture shown.  This is not the case.  It came as a pot, a bag of soil, and a damp paper towel with a VERY small plant inside...maybe 1 inch long.  There were absolutely no care or planting instructions or anything like that at all.  We were pretty disappointed.  However, I was able to plant what was there in the dirt and it seems to have survived and looks a bit better now.  My daughter is happy with this plant now, but it was a rough start."
,,,,,"Shipped alive, then I killed it",Its smaller than I expected. I dont think 3 inches is as big as it used to be. It comes in this clear goofy plastic box that told me to use said box as a humidity dome. I don't remember seeing a dome in the little shop movie but I tried it anyway. A day later my plant was burned and never recovered.<br /><br />I'd give it more stars if the directions were more clear. It was cool seeing the heads close up on things.
,,,,,FLY EATER,"We live in the country so flies are very bothersome.  This plant is probably stuffed, its working overtime. Each mouth has about three flies, I would think that is too many to digest but hey its eating flies like its suppose to."
,,,,,JV,The plant came very healthy but smaller then described. It was described as a large Venus fly trap I received a medium size Venus fly trap but it was a healthy one even fed before it was shipped being that I paid a reasonable price for it's unexpected size I don't believe I loss on this one in fact I am pleased with the plant.
,,,,,brown and small,"I received the pant faster than expected, but it was brown and considerably smaller than advertised. I have very little hope that this plant will live out this week, but if it does I will update this review with a higher rating."
,,,,,Plant was in excellent condition upon arrival,"The plant come early then expected and was in perfect condition. So far the plant is doing okay, just can't understand why the traps are turning black after every feeding. I try contacting the company, but no one was there to answer the phone. Either way they delivered the plant to my house without it being damaged or smashed. I would recommend buying from this company again."
,,,,,Same as those available in stores.,"I received this item today and while it is indeed a Venus Fly Trap in a 3"" pot, I was disappointed to find it is the kind of plant that comes in the clear plastic packaging that is available at a few department stores and garden centers in my area. I specifically ordered a plant on the internet to avoid getting one of these.<br /><br />I still give 4 stars because it did arrive in pretty good shape, and most of the plants like this in stores are not very healthy. And, after all, I ordered a flytrap in a 3"" pot and that's what I got. Just know that if you have a local store with a garden center, they may have these plants already and you could save the shipping cost by buying one there if you can find one in decent shape."
,,,,,FUN! FUN! FUN!,"We love to feed ours.  I chase flies and insects around the house sometimes just to watch them eat.  I would recommend buying some type of planitarium for them.  They need a warm humid space.  Only use distilled water.  NOT FILTERED!  These plants are very delicate when it comes to the water you give them.  I would even go so far as to buy a guide book.  Don't buy the ""happy plants"".  It's a good book for a kid. But it's not a guide on how to raise these plants. These plants are a great conversation piece for house guests.  Need I say more? ENJOY! Chazz"
,,,,,My 7-Year-Old is Pleased!,The plant arrived in great condition ... fully green and with about five or six heads in the clear box that can serve as a terrarium.  Will give it our best shot on keeping it up and running!  This was in much better shape than the venus flytrap plants at our local big-box do-it-yourself in their garden area.
,,,,,A Great Plant,"I am a college student and wanted to get a unique plant for my dorm. In my eagerness to buy this plant, I accidentally sent this plant to my home address instead of my dorm. Despite this delay, my plant arrived about one week after I first ordered it. (Had it been shipped correctly, it would have taken only four days). In addition, the plant STILL arrived in good condition. Its growing very well.<br /><br />A few things to note: This plant is, as stated, in a 3"" pot. Don't expect a giant man-eating plant. My plant came with about seven heads and a flower stem, which will hopefully bloom soon. The one thing that this plant does not come with his any sort of terrarium or other habitat for it, though the plant's robustness makes up for it. Make sure to follow the special care instructions with it and the plant will grow fine. It is definitely worth the cost and it makes  a perfect pet plant."
,,,,,It was alive on arrival...barely,I opened the carton and the plant looked like someone put it in a shoe box and shook it all up.  I didn't think it would live.<br />It did recover however and a heat generating pad was included so I give it 4/5 stars.  knocked one for loose packing.<br />I would buy from this company again in hopes they get better at packing.
,,,,,awesome plant,wen the plant arrived it was kinda small. but now it is starting to grow new traps and its getting bigger every day. i have enjoyed feeding it bugs and i an very satisfied with the product.
,,,,,9GreenBox takes care of their customers,This review is based on 9GreenBox taking care of their customers.  If you receive an item that you consider to be subpar they will make it right.  Highly recommend this retailer.
,,,,,Venus Flytrap plant died,I ordered this plant as a gift for a friend and was not told until recently that the plant had died shortly after she received it.  She said she followed care instruction but the leaves started to fall off and it wilted and died.  I wish I had known sooner but she just told me last week.
,,,,,Bad!!!,Two of the three plants were dying and are now dead. They all were tiny!!! They are suppose to catch flies but not one fly has been caught because they couldn't even fit in the bloom.  Rip Off!!! Do not do business with this vendor...
,,,,,lived 3 days,i recieved the fly trap and it seemed fine i put it in a nice sunny area it did good but then 2 days later it just died so i paid 15 bux for a plant that lived 3 days lol
,,,,,Good quality plant,"My son asked for this plant for his birthday and he is very happy with it.  It seems to be doing well thus far, hopefully it will continue to thrive.  It was packed well in the box and incurred no damage during shipping."
,,,,,I killed the plant,"I received the plant in great condition but soon killed it. The directions said not to fertalize it and exactly what to plant it in. So, I bought exactly what it said but did not pay attention to the fact that the medium had rapid gro in it so it died within 3 days. My seven year old loved it while he had it though. He even named it, fed it and took care of it as if it were a life pet!"
,,,,,Best White Polenta,I love white polenta but most of what I find in the U.S. is very coarse.  It still tastes great but the texture leaves a lot to be desired.  Moretti Polenta Friulana Bianco is amazing - the creamiest and finest I have ever seen.
,,,,,Peanut Butter Mixed With Clouds,"Whipped peanut butter isn't for everyone; it's basically just peanut butter whipped up so it has more air in it.  For some reason, however, I LOVE it.  It spreads easier and seems to taste sweeter, lighter, and fluffier.  If you're a peanut butter freak, definitely give this stuff a try."
,,,,,What a scam!,"On the label it says, ""1/3 less sugar"" than regular peanut butter.  If you read the fine print, it is because it 1/3 less peanut butter!  That being said, it is very tasty."
,,,,,Disappointing Filled Bones!,"My golden retriever loves these bones!  I ordered them and they arrived in a timely manner.  However, when I opened the box, they were old - meaning the filling was somewhat dried and didn't completely fill the hoof due to shrinkage.  Once the plastic is removed, the filling pretty much falls out.  Very disappointing!"
,,,,,Love it--and allergen free,"This is one of the few canned sauces without citric acid. Their canned ground tomatoes I use all the time for sauce, better than imported San Marzano, and I am an Italian-American.  I know my sauce.  This can be found in some local supermarkets, here in NY it is in ShopRite, BestYet, and in larger cans at Sam's Club for under $4 for a HUGE 6 lb. can! In supermarkets, I bought it recently at $1 for a 15 oz. can on sale, regularly priced under $2 for a 15 oz. can.  Look for it and try it. Nice and thick and tasty as it should be.  An additional bonus for me personally is that it contains no food allergens such as dairy, eggs, or nuts.  Safe for my granddaughter who is allergic."
,,,,,"As good as you can get in a can, awesome flavor","A great sauce if you can find it locally.  My Giant carries it for less than a couple of bucks a can.  The flavor is great, very good tomato taste with a good bit of tanginess.  Not sweet at all but there is a hint of tomato sweetness.  I never thought I'd find something this good in a can.  I bought one because it looked out of place on the store shelf so it had to be good.  I've read reviews on a pizza making forum and most of the people grudgingly concede its a good sauce."
,,,,,As good as homemade,"Don't be put off by the cartoon label: this is SERIOUS, EXCELLENT pizza sauce, the best I've ever tasted out of a can. My family has been eating it for years. Basically, there's no need for us to make homemade sauce anymore. But don't just believe me -- google ""Don Pepino pizza sauce"" and read other people's rave reviews.<br /><br />We can't find it in our local grocery stores so we usually buy a case or two at a time. The pop-top cans are also a perfect size for a large pie or two.<br /><br />The company's other tomato products, sold under the name ""Sclafani"", are also highly recommended."
,,,,,Just like I remebered!,"I grew up in NJ and the local Italian food store sold this sauce along with dough and cheese that you could take home to make your own pizza! I loved it then, and I love it now.  The only issue is the price.  At almost 4$ per can it would be hard to justify the cost.  So to be clear, 5 stars for the sauce, but 1 star for the price!"
,,,,,MMM!,"There is no better sauce and I think it's even better than most homemade sauces. One can will make two large pizzas. It's seriously amazing. Unfortunately, it is hard to find but when I do find it... I buy all the stock. ;)"
,,,,,Highly recommended cat food,"I used to work in a specialty pet store, and cats were my specialty. I was the expert on diet after spending much time researching various foods, reading labels, and talking to customers. I'll share what I learned, and explain why I recommend this food. Science Diet is one of the worst foods for cats, and right down at the bottom you'll also find Purina, Meow Mix, Eukanuba, and Iams. These have by-products, fillers (corn, soybean mill run, corn gluten, grits, or white rice).<br /><br />Many of the better foods like Blue Buffalo, Artemis, Wellness, Instinct, Orijen, California Naturals, Innova Evo, Merrick, and my personal favorite Vet's Choice Health Extension are world's apart in quality and most are cheaper than Science Diet pound for pound in many stores.<br /><br />These are the ingredients for a typical Science Diet bag minus the vitamins/minerals, just to give you an example:<br /><br />Ground Whole Grain Corn, Chicken By-Product Meal, Animal Fat, Dried Beet Pulp, Soybean Oil, Dried Egg Product, Flaxseed.<br /><br />Corn is a filler, and it's the number one ingredient. By products are things like beaks, feathers, etc. They're waste products. The only decent ingredients are down the ingredient list, meaning that they exist in a smaller amount then the first ingredients. Now, let's look at a bag of Health Extension that's both cheaper AND of higher quality:<br /><br />Chicken, Chicken Meal, Brown rice, Oats, Dried Egg Product, Chicken Fat, Flaxseed, Menhaden Fish Meal, Herring Oil, Sweet Potato, Cranberries, Blueberries, Tomato Pomace, Natural Barley Malt, Apple Cider Vinegar, Goji Berry, Garlic, Astragalus, Ginger, Blue Green Algae + 6 kinds of probiotics.<br /><br />The potato is a nice binder and good for digestion. The oils and flaxseed are good for the coat being rich in Omegs 3's. The probiotics regulate digestion. The eggs and chicken are good sources of protein. You might not *need* some of the extra ingredients like Goji berry for example, but they're better than fillers and at the very least harmless to cats.<br /><br />I recommend this food because my cats love it, it's relatively cheap for a quality food, and the ingredients are top-notch. If you want better food, go with Instinct (which my cats love even better, especially the rabbit) but be prepared to pay much more. The absolute best would be to put your cats on a raw diet using pucks of meat prepared by various companies, or simply do it yourself if you've researched how to prepare it, but this is an even more expensive route."
,,,,,Bang!,I was looking all over for milk in a paint can and I found it! Thank you Amazon. The only down side is that it is the sweet milk from a goat's teat. Once one gets over that it is by far the best powdered milk in a paint can that I ever ordered online.
,,,,,Ovine Body Juice Saved Christmas,"By god, is there anything this stuff can't do?<br />Recently when it snowed holy hell, I was out of rock salt<br />with which to ensafen the driveway with. Sure enough, Meyeberg's<br />powederized saviour came to the rescue. With just a few sprinkles of this remarkable 'Jesus in a can', every last bit of that ice didn't just melt, but literally *sublimated* away, leaving bare, dry... and actually kind of unnervingly warm, concrete beneath!<br />However, it managed to turn snow into ice cream, also apparently induces water into wine by proximity alone!<br />However, since this occoured, I have never been able to reproduce these breathtaking effects. Except for one:<br />It makes a very rich quishe."
,,,,,Never Received Goat Milk,I was given a track number and told it was delivered to my POBOX.  It never happened.  I received a refund and am now in the process of wating for my new reorder.
,,,,,Is A ok fine,"I prefer this powdered milk to the condensed form that Meyerberg sells. The condensed has a more sour flavor to it.  One has to realize that goat's milk is not cow's milk in that it is richer or creamier in flavor so it does startle one until your palate get's used to something which tastes ""different"". When it is warm, it honestly tastes about as close to what a milk product should taste. Cold it has a slight powdered milk processed flavor.<br /><br />I actually made ice cream from this powdered milk and it turned out pretty good. It is like ice milk as this is milk, but it was different and enjoyable but quite sweet.<br /><br />The recipe was 1 quart milk (8 scoops of powdered milk made warm and allowed to chill)<br /><br />1 cup white sugar<br /><br />1 tsp vanilla flavoring (you can try other flavorings like banana)<br /><br />1/8 tsp salt<br /><br />My electric freezer will freeze this in 20 minutes.<br /><br />I like the powdered for it's ease and it keeps well. I can make up a quart and it will keep 2 weeks, so it is on hand and not wasting or forcing someone who has limited use to drink a gallon of milk. Granted one is used to cow's milk, but this is something one can get used to if they have allergies and I am glad it comes in a nice metal can with a plastic lid to reseal after you pop the top and a plastic measuring scoop to get it right.<br /><br />One can will make 3 quarts of milk."
,,,,,"Some cans tastes good, others horrid","I really do not know what the issue is with this goat milk. My one year old daughter has suffered horrible constipation since switching to cow milk on her birthday. After a month of us both suffering (because I had to help it along if you get my drift), I switched her to goat milk. After 2 days, she was passing perfectly soft stools. The goat milk definitely cured her of the constipation, but each can I open seems to be different. Sometimes when I reconsitute it, I know right away that it is going to taste terrible because the smell is so strong. Other cans, I hardly notice it. She will not drink the bad-smelling milk, and when I have tried it, I have nearly vomitted! Majorly salty and gamey tasting.<br />Compared to fresh (Meyenberg from the fridge section of grocery store), well, it really doesn't compare. I have found the fresh to taste sweet, like cream, and then there is a little gamey after-taste, but nothing like the slap-you-in-the-face taste of the powdered. I was hoping to save money with the powdered, but since it is a 50/50 chance she won't drink certain cans, I am really wasting money. I am thinking I will have to stick with the fresh from now on.<br />If anyone has any ideas about what the difference between cans could be, I would love to hear it! I always have prepared it with Britta-filtered water (warmed on the stove) and mixed it up in pyrex, then stored it in a large Ball jar in fridge. (I know I should prob call the company and talk to them, but that would require me to actually remember to do it at a time that they are open and I am able - never happens!!)Thanks!"
,,,,,Meyenberg Powdered Goat Milk -- Good for Puppies,"I used Meyenberg Powdered Goat Milk with my first litter of pups five years ago, and was very pleased with it, so made sure to stock up before my second litter was born.  I supplement the mother's food with it, and mix it with ground puppy food to make a puppy gruel to transition the pups to puppy food.  The pups and their mother seem to love it, and have suffered no digestive problems at all.  It dissolves quickly in warm water and is convenient and easy to store.  I recommend it as a nutritional supplement for nursing mothers and pups both."
,,,,,My toddler drinks it,"My almost-two-year-old is allergic to cow's milk, so we give him a mixture of goat's milk and rice milk.  Liquid goat's milk is expensive, at least where I live, so we switched to the powdered form a few months ago.  I don't drink milk, but my son seems to like it okay.  Goat's milk products have a distinct flavor that you either love or hate; I love it in goat cheese and goat butter, but my wife hates it.  Judge for yourself!"
,,,,,Goats milk,"This is the best stuff going for a child that is unable to drink formula or soy milk. I used it for my son when he was a baby. I started him on it when he was about 3 months old, because of allergies and his doctor said to leave him on the soy milk even though it was causing him much discomfort. I couldn't just let my son suffer and took it upon myself to put him on goats milk and ended up with a healthy kid and a doctor who was also a convert!"
,,,,,Great Alternate for Baby Formula!!,"My son is sensitive to cows milk protein and I am trying to keep him off of soy.  My milk was not enough for him, and I did not like the ingredients in baby formula (all had soy and most have cows milk protein, not to mention 45% corn syrup solids).  My pediatrician recommended this powdered goats milk because they add folate (not normally found in goats milk).  Since I have been feeding my son this milk, he has been SO happy and growing so much better! Have not had to add any vitamins/supplements to it to make it a whole food, it is fine on its own. Although, I have been using organic brown rice cereal because he is getting close to being ready for solids.  LOVE this milk! (always consult your doctor before changing your babies diet)"
,,,,,So Far - Great for Colic!,"Our little baby girl battled colic and reflux for nearly 6 weeks. She was unable to sleep because her little belly hurt - she would be 90% asleep when she would arch her back ad then scream in pain. Baby, mommy, and daddy were all miserable. After going through all the brands of formula (including <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000ARPKE4"">Similac Alimentum Hypoallergenic Formula, Powder, Case of 6 Cans- each 1 lb (454 g)</a>) the doctor finally put her on goat's milk and Prilosec. I am not sure which was the bigger influence, but the quality of our lives is now significantly better.<br /><br />  The nice thing about the Meyenberg Goat Milk is that is easy to prepare just like regular formula. Liquid goat's milk must be kept in the refrigerator and must be warmed ... not too big of a deal except for those 3am feedings! Another nice thing about the Meyenberg powdered milk is that folic acid is added. Remember that if you choose to give goat's milk to your baby that you will need to give some supplemental vitamins. Our daughter seems to enjoy the taste - and as a bonus it does not have the nasty smell of <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000ARPKE4"">Similac Alimentum Hypoallergenic Formula, Powder, Case of 6 Cans- each 1 lb (454 g)</a>.<br /><br />Final Verdict - So far... great... let's hope it continues!<br /><br />5 Stars"
,,,,,The most convienent way to store and drink goats milk,We have been using Meyenberg's powdered goat milk for several years.  We used to buy their milk in cartons at Walmart and it was good.  The only problem was that we live so far from a Walmart store that we would run out of goat's milk between trips.  We decided to try the powdered and found that it mixes and stays mixed very well and tastes exactly like the liquid milk in the cartons.  Of course it stores easily and indefinitely and we highly recommend it to anyone who wants or has to drink goats milk.
,,,,,My daughter loves this milk!,"My 14 month old daughter can not tolerate cows milk or soy. While she was an infant, she had to drink Nutramigen formula and would only drink maybe 4 oz at a time. Once she turned a year old, and I began giving her Meyenberg goat's milk, she began to guzzle it! She loves it so much! She now consistently drinks 8-12 ounces at a time!<br /><br />I mix one can (powdered) at a time, which makes approx. one gallon. We go through about a gallon every 2 days!<br /><br />This milk is such a blessing! We highly recommend it! Amazon has the best price, too. It's so much more convenient and less expensive to purchase it on here and have it delivered to us rather than make countless (and expensive) trips to the health food store."
,,,,,Great Cow's Milk Alternative & Easy to Use,"My daughter is allergic to soy & cow's milk, but tolerated goat milk very well. She has been drinking it since she was 12 months. It's nice having a powder so we can take it with us when we are on the go. There is more information about the milk itself on the meyenberg website. After looking over the website, I felt confident that goat milk would meet my daughter's nutritional needs."
,,,,,Great product!,"My three-year-old daughter has been drinking this brand of goat milk for the last 2 years because she is dairy intolerant.  This is a great product. Easy to carry (because it's a powder) and mix it when you need it.  And, this is an awesome price. $10.00 less than I usually pay for three cans."
,,,,,HORRIBLE!,"I must be the odd man out here...but this powdered goat milk is horrible!  My 18 month old son is allergic to dairy and soy, hence the reason for goat milk.  We were going on vacation for two weeks, and I was afraid there would not be any source of goat milk at that destination. Being he drinks almost a quart a day of regular liquid goat milk I purchase from Trader Joe's, I figured I would go for the gusto and buy a two weeks supply for him. It smelled horrible and more importantly tasted horrible! Words cannot even describe how disgusting this stuff was.  My poor son almost threw up from tasting it which prompted me to smell it.  It smelled so bad, I couldn't even taste it myself.  Maybe we're just used to the regular brand he drinks?  My only advice, try a small amount first.  It is not returnable!!!"
,,,,,Excellent alternate infant formula,"This goat's milk has been a godsend for our granddaughter who seemed to get sick on every formula we tried.  The goat milk with a little coconut oil and extra DHA became a fantastic infant formula.  Once she started using the goat milk, almost all of her ""issues"" resolved themselves.  Her skin cleared up completely and her scalp didn't look all scaly and dry.  She looked like the perfect child we knew her to be!  She's now 7 months and has been using it since she's a month old.  She has been growing beautifully and perfectly on this powdered goat milk.  The powder is very convenient too.  Twenty years ago my nephew used goat milk in place of cow's milk and also did great!  His allergies also became a thing of the past.  All I can say is this is an excellent product!"
,,,,,An adequate product,"I purchased this product in the hope of utilizing it to produce yogurt. The yogurt produced by this product was very thin and could not be thickened using only culture.<br /><br />From the producers website<br /><br />""Note:  Goat milk yogurt is very thin, almost like kefir. For a thicker consistency, add 1 packet of unflavored gelatin dissolved in some of the scalded goat milk....""<br /><br />The product has a distinct aroma. Not terrible, but was stronger than comparable fresh goat milk. The flavor of the milk was only acceptable.<br /><br />In a pinch this product will suffice, however; I would not personally recommend it for regular consumption."
,,,,,Excellent replacement for Cow Milk,"I tried the condensed version and thought it was horrible so was concerned that I would not like the powdered either.  Before I tried the powdered I had some of the fresh from my grocery store and really liked it.  As it turns out, this is quite the same as the fresh and about 60% cheaper.<br /><br />We are switching because both of my kids had ear infections galore and now sinus infections galore.  One was always constipated and still is to a certain extent.  And one is showing signs of hyperactivity, which some believe may be related to a food allergy (such as cow's milk).  So I figured better safe than sorry and am switching the whole family."
,,,,,Blech!!!,"I don't know how people could say this doesn't smell or taste bad. It is horrible!! I was getting raw goat's milk for quite a while and when we moved it wasn't available. The fresh raw milk was delicious and mild and did not have that gamey odor and flavor that this milk has. Maybe some people don't mind the taste, maybe some acquire a taste for it, and maybe some even like it, but I think it is vile. If you like the taste of the goat's milk cheese in stores, then you may like this, if not, stay far, far away!"
,,,,,Nice Alternative to cows' milk,"My kids enjoy this goat milk product with their cereal and I use it for cooking as well.  Although I haven't tried many goat milk products this one is easy since I make what I need.  Therefore there is little waste.  It is also easy to pack and take when traveling.  Overall, I recommend this product."
,,,,,Unusual black specks in milk,"The last shipment I received, when preparing the milk there were black specks or particles in it. It was in two out of the three containers. I don't even know if it was in the first can i used. This was the first time it's happened and I've been using goats milk for my daughter since December 2011 and she loves it. Plus it didn't constipated her like whole cow's milk. Now I'm leary about buying another batch as it may contain this stuff again."
,,,,,Fantastic Baby Formula,"My little girl (6 months) can't stomach any formula.  Even Nutramigen, at $35 per can made her colicky and sick (accompanied with the worst smelling spit up).  The expensive formulas smelled bad, and tasted worse, I hated giving them to her.  Goats milk was recommended to me.  Her doctor's only objection was that it was low in Folic Acid and tended to dehydrate babies.  Well, Meyenberg Powdered Milk  is fortified with Folic Acid, so dilute it with a little extra water and you're in business!  I now have the happiest infant you've ever seen.  Enfamil can take that nasty chemical soup they call formula and shove it, I'll never go back.<br /><br />You can get the formula Recipe at:<br />[...]<br /><br />There have been concerns about arsenic in rice syrup lately, so I have been using Lyle's Golden Syrup, and she likes it fine (Also it's the best pancake syrup you'll ever have).  I am going to try barley malt syrup next, it is chemically more similar to rice syrup."
,,,,,use it all the time,"i get horrible gas, stomach pain and loose stools if I drink a glass of cow milk or eat in cereal. I have tried lactase pills and special milk with no results.<br /><br /> I use this instead and have none of those symptoms.  Measure into your mixing bowl, cup, pitcher, etc. and SLOWLY mix in HOT water. As soon as it's paste, you can add cold water.  Doing it this way prevents clumping.<br /><br />I like it and add JUST A TOUCH of sugar or other sweetner & kids can't tell the difference between this and cow milk.  I use 1 TBS of unsulphured, blackstrap molasses per 16oz milk. It turns the milk light brown (think iced coffee) but my family doesn't mind. We like the way it tastes and appreciate the extra iron, calcium and potassium from the molasses (has to be unsulphured, blackstrap). This type has only 11g carbs per TBSP. I use slighty less powder than recommended (3 scoops for 16oz instead of the recommended 4). This helps to weaken the goat flavor."
,,,,,Great infant formula!,"We bought this after reading about it on Dr. Sear's website. Our son has had no problems at all with the formula, we add brown rice syrup per our pediatricians recommendation (to add calories) Our son was a preemie, and was EBF for the first 7 months until stress from work affected milk production. Our son took to the goats milk right away, we mixed the first couple bottles with breastmilk until we knew he had no digestive issues with it, then were able to give him goats milk by itself. The goats milk smells and tastes better when warm than cold. I grew up on goats milk myself, so the taste doesn't bother me, but my husband isn't crazy about. Good thing our son loves it, because that's what really counts! It's 1/3 the cost of convential (cow's milk based) formula and is easier for tiny tummies to digest. It's a win-win all around!"
,,,,,"Easy to mix, good for lactose intolerant toddlers","My son recently had a stomach virus that gave him temporary lactose intolerance.  Buying fresh goat's milk in the dairy section is very expensive compared to organic cow's milk, but most of the milk alternatives don't have enough fat and too much sugar for growing toddlers.  This powdered goat's milk was a great solution.  It is easy to mix with my formula pitcher, even using cold filtered water, and the taste is very good.  My son likes it as much as he did his regular milk.  This item is hard for me to find locally, so I was glad to see it on Amazon through S&S.  I plan on keeping this in my pantry from now on in case his intolerance comes back or I run short of regular milk."
,,,,,Great for toddler with cow and soy milk intolerance.,My baby has had digestive issues from birth. At 12 months I put her on this product and immediately saw improvement.  It didn't take long for her to accept it either.  I found a recipe on the Dr. Sears website for making goats milk formula for infants and would have tried it when she was younger. TIP: This powder doesn't dissolve in water as easily as regular formula. Make a days worth of milk ahead of time and use a wire wisk to mix it.
,,,,,"Good, but clumpy","I give this milk to my son...we are experimenting with different milks.<br /><br />The pros- the boy seems to really enjoy his goat's milk and doesn't seem to know the difference between the kind we get in the refrigerated section of our grocery store and the powdered variety.  It's nice for those emergencies when your local grocery runs out of those few quarts of goat's milk it carries.  It was also good for traveling to grandma's and not wanting to take a cooler to store the milk.<br /><br />The cons- it mixes very clumpy unless you use really warm water to mix it.  Even then you have to stir, stir, stir to get the lumps out. Also, once you open it, it has a limited shelf life, must be because of all of the fat...if your intent was to open it up and use every once in awhile until it runs out, this product is not for you."
,,,,,I wont give my baby anything else!,"I have been so happy with this product!  My baby girl has always had a sensitive tummy, up late hours w/ pains and crying with nothing to sooth her.  I finally found this product, our natropath suggested it.  My daughter loves it and it really helped her tummy!  Now, I wont giver her any other formula.  It organic and difficult to find at local stores in my area.  I found amazon to have the best price and its easy to have it delivered to the door.  Id suggest this formula to anyone!"
,,,,,pleases my baby!!!,"we love the powdered goat milk taking the place of regular formula! raw goat milk is one of the closest and most nurishing milk to give a baby other then breastmilk, and when we cant get raw milk we go with powdered! it sits well in his belly and digest great! he loves loves loves it!!! i have used this milk for all 4 of my boys and it has proven to be the best formula EVER!!!! would highly recommend to anyone for their baby unless of course you can get the fresh stuff!!LOL"
,,,,,Answer to my lil munchkins severe allergy,"my daughter who is 8 months old is on this meyenberg goats milk from 6 months... all i can say is she is an entirely different baby now.<br />She was a colicky baby, severe eczema flares now and then (inflammation and oozing most of the time) .. doctors asked me to try different<br />hypoallergenic formulas which she refused to take just a table spoon in her regular formula.. I gave up hope that she would ever change her formula.<br />in the process i was reading about goats milk and its various benefits. I spoke to the dietitian gastro doc and her pediatrician but none of them agreed<br />that i should feed her the goats milk because it is not nutritionally good for the baby. I was very upset because all i knew was my daughter has cow's milk allergy<br />and she was been fed cows milk despite of the fact it was making her colicky, making her skin worse day by day and she has severe reflux problems. I decided to try this<br />product and luckily i was able to find it in whole foods.. made one bottle and gave it to my daughter while she was asleep. to my surprise she drank it all and she slept<br />good for straight two to three hours which never happened in the last 5 months. though she did not liked the taste later and i had to give her with the ratio of one ounce<br />goats milk to five oz enfamil, now she is doing 5 oz of goats milk to one oz of enfamil. What a dramatic change<br />No Colic, beteer Skin with no oozing or hyper inflammation (i sometimes apply on her milder inflammation 0.5% cortisone)she is still on pepcid for her reflux but she is doing<br />better where as her spitting is concerened alomost 0 spitting (before she use to keep on puking now and then). I look at her and thank God for making me decide on this product<br />as she is a Happy baby now. i can only imagine better for her what will she be like when completely on the goats milk. I have to supplement her with the multi vitamins.<br />I took her recently to her pediatrician, her GI their exact words (her skin has never been this good before)the dietitian is working on my daughter's diet plan to make sure<br />she gets all the nutrients which are essential for a growing baby...<br />I did not wanted to make the trips to the whole foods everytime and pay a higher price for this product when Amazon is selling on a great price of 3 cans.. the shipping is free<br />and the package arrives right on time before i am out of the stock ( you need to order this product before a week so u never run out of it) The packaging is good and the cans are not<br />damaged or dented.<br />Great product<br />Excellent providers Amazon"
,,,,,great product,"I like this milk powder.  My boys cannot drink cow milk and fresh goat milk can be hard to get.  This does not get all clumpy in the can like some powdered milks and is easy to mix up IF you use WARM water per the directions.  It has a nice taste, much better than canned and just as good as fresh.  It has been very useful for traveling as you can mix up a cup or two at a time as needed."
,,,,,great stuff!,we have been using this stuff for our baby for three years and she loves it.
,,,,,Good to mix with soy milk for my kids,"My kids do not like the goat milk straight, but are both intolerant to milk. my solution is to add a little of the mixed goat milk to vanilla flavored soy milk. Why would I do this, you ask? I read that dairy products are the best form of calcium you can get, dairy and broccoli. Enriched products, like soy milk, are okay sources, but not as good as the real deal. So I mix the two together to make sure my kids get the best possible calcium intake they can. They wouldn't drink it just so though so improvised. This company is great! Cow's milk is just not good for people! Goat milk is infinitely better. I use to make their mac and cheese and things like that too. They can stand the little bit of lactose in the cheese powder, and by using the goat milk, you can't even tell there is anything different about the dish. very useful."
,,,,,Great alternative to cow's milk for toddlers,"I started using goat milk when my daughter was 1 because she did not digest cow's milk that well. This product is great, has equal or more nutrition than cow's milk, has a good flavor, just slightly different than cow's milk,is easy to digest and best of all the powder form is great if you are on the go, I don't have to worry about it spoiling I just mix and give it to my daughter."
,,,,,Go for the Goat!,"Goat milk is very good for the digestive system.  Fortunately, it performs many functions that the medical world is not aware of.  I can remember in the 40's, my father curing his ulcers with goat milk.  He lived until the ripe old age of 94.  I have friends who have discarded Rx and over-the counter products, in favor of goat milk to solve their digestive problems.<br /><br />Even though regular goat milk lasts long in the refrigerator, powered goat milk lasts longer, and is easily made when you need it.  Plus, with the powder, you can customize the quality of the product to your taste.<br /><br />It's good for you and to you."
,,,,,It's Goat-tastic,"This is by far the best tasting thing that's come from a goat in years! Bullsburg Creamery, Man Chowder Dairy or Goat Coat can't hold a candle to this stuff. Drink it, bake it, snort it...it's all good."
,,,,,goatmilkdrinker,"It's OK,but it is not as good as Meyenberg's fresh goatmilk in the carton.It sort of has a waters down taste.!"
,,,,,Meyenberg Powdered Goat Milk - Yum!,"When I was young, my mom owned a couple goats that gave our family fresh milk.  Recently, I discovered Meyenberg Powdered Goat Milk and was surprised to find out that it tastes just like the fresh goat's milk I remember.  It even has the thick cream layer fresh milk has.<br /><br />However, it would be awesome if the product came in larger cans.  I ended up emptying the 12-ounce can rather quickly because I used my large Blender Bottle to mix three cups at a time, and this, unfortunately, depleted one can of powdered milk in record time (one can makes 12 cups liquid)."
,,,,,AMAZING!!!,"After my doctors told me that I needed to supplement with formula and stop breastfeeding as much because my daughter did not gain enough weight, i knew I did not want to use fomula. I found this goats milk and it not only helped her gain the weight she needed but it did not give her any GI upset. This was a god send and my 11 month old is still just as happy as when she was breasfteeding. She does not mind the taste and loves her bottles!!!"
,,,,,Best thing that ever happened to my baby! :),"My one year old daughter drinks this every day and she loves it! I haven't accustomed myself to the ""gamey"" taste as other reviewers call it, but I'm thrilled that she is getting a whole fatted milk, free of hormones and overflowing with nutrition. Get 'em started early!"
,,,,,Wonderful Product,"I've given up on cows milk products....it interferes with my digestion, creates constipation and gas.  I decided to try this powdered goats milk because I remembered that my parents told me that I was allergic to cows milk when I was a baby and they gave me goats milk instead, but then switched me to cows milk when I was old enough to tolerate it.  I wish they had left me on the goats milk growing up because I find that my body tolerates it much better, and I think I would have been healthier as a child growing up if I'd had goats milk instead of cows milk.<br /><br />I use it to make my own kefir, yogurt, custards and whatever else I need milk for.  I was a bit dubious when I first bought it....I didn't know if I would like the taste of it or not, but....I love the taste and the smell of it.  Mmmmmm.....Yum. The taste at first reminded me a tiny bit of the flavor of lamb.....and I love lamb....but this taste is so slight that it's not noticable in kefir (which makes the most delicious pancakes), or yogurt or in custard or any other baked goods.  I like the taste and smell of this goats milk better than cows milk.<br /><br />I also like the powdered milk because I can make it up a cup at a time or a quart at a time, as I need it, and never have to worry about having to store it in the refrigerator or it going bad or spoiling.  It's very convenient.<br /><br />It takes a few minutes for it to dissolve and be absorbed into warm water when first mixing it, but once it is all dissolved in the water, I can't tell the difference between this powdered milk and fresh milk.  It dissolves and mixes quickest in a blender."
,,,,,Love Goats Milk,"I love to feed my kids goats milk. But to buy it fresh from the farm is so expensive, so this is a great substitute. I started my kids on this when I stopped nursing and they've loved it ever since. They eat it in their cereal and drink it straight from the cup. I think goats milk is the next best thing to breast milk!"
,,,,,Excellent for babies who are allergic to dairy. And WAY better than the toxic formulas.,my daughter is allergic to all dairy and cannot have all the extra iron they pump into the poisness formulas that they say are sooo healthy for your babies growth. this goats milk gives her all the nutrients that she needs. i would suggest to any mother even if the baby is not allergic to dairy.
,,,,,Great Product for the Price,"We started with fresh goats milk and after 2 weeks transitioned to this product.  I prepare it with warm water in the blender and add some strawberry flavoring.  My son (17 months) loves it.  Very easy to prepare, and compared to baby formula - VERY reasonable in price."
,,,,,very good,The flavor is very good. 45 seconds in the microwave and one measure of this milk and you are done (stir). I can noticed the difference between the whole milk from cow and this goat milk...it is much much better to digest.
,,,,,Great price,"After shopping around, this is by far the best deal on powdered goat's milk."
,,,,,Powdered Goat's Milk is easy to use!,This product is very easy to use and is good for people (and pets) that are lactose intolerant.  I use it as a treat for my ferrets and they love it!  It can help sick ferrets feel better and gain weight.  Thank you for offering something so easy to use!
,,,,,"I love goat milk, but too bad....",Too bad this stuff in general ranks high on the inflammation triggering foods.  I'm trying to follow a low inflammation diet.  I do love the taste of goats milk.  It's very rich and creamy.  The liquid is better than the powder.
,,,,,Es muy buena para bebes con problemas de alergias alimenticias,"El gastroenterologo pediatra recomendo este tipo de leche para mis hijos, ya que las demas formulas lacteas le causaban una alergia que les hacia vomitar."
,,,,,This is a lifesaver for me and my little,"I use this in combination with Baby's Only formula for my daughter. Unfortunately, due to illness, my milk production took a plunge when she was 5 months old. Although, it breaks my heart that I can only nurse a little, I feel better using goat's milk (easy for baby belly's to digest). I add Baby's Only so she gets the vital nutrients she needs. If you are looking to supplement your child, consider using raw local goat's milk (if you are lucky enough to have it around). This stuff is great."
,,,,,my favorite,This product is the best choice for adding calcium+vitD and protein in your diet. Cow's milk gives me stomach trouble whereas this doesn't. I drink it regularly myself. I also add the powder in my home-made baby food for my son starting around 6 months. Powdered form has an additional benefit. You can reconstitute it into whatever concentration you'd like. Yum!
,,,,,Awesome!,"We've been using Meyenberg Powdered Goat Milk for our little girl since she was 6 months of age.  My wife and I love this product.  We opted not to feed our child any formula milk out there.  My wife breastfeeds and due to low breast milk production, we also feed our child goats milk.  Dr. Sears has an awesome web page on info about goats milk and it's uses for babies."
,,,,,The BEST!!!!,"I have been drinking this powdered goat milk for years! It is the best no after taste with all the immune boosting benefits! I have an 8mos. Old and plan to feed him this starting on his first birthday, I cannot wait! My husband grew up on goat milk and has the best immunity! This is so easy to digest within 20 minutes vs. cow milk which takes more than 24 hrs.!<br /><br />Above all it tastes so DELISH!!!!! YUMMMY!<br /><br />amazon truly has unbelievable price! luv my Amazon:)"
,,,,,"Great Product, Great Price!","This is a great price for powdered goat milk. At the local health food store (the only place in town that carries goat milk), I buy just one of these cans for $15. $20 for three cans is the best price I've found!<br /><br />I use goat milk for my children, when they are in the process of weaning, and as long as they want it. It is so much healthier than formula because, well, it's not soy or dairy based, and has no chemicals and added vitamins that try to mimic breastmilk. Goat milk is more similar to breastmilk than dairy, so is much easier for humans to digest than cow milk. I find it to be a great alternative for babies as they adjust, or for those who cannot tolerate dairy.<br /><br />For warm bottles for my 14-month-old, I just heat water on the stove, then pour it into her glass bottle with a scoop of goat milk. Shake it up and she has her favorite drink (Other than momma's milk, of course)!"
,,,,,Great item!!,Works well instead of formula or soy milk for my daughters bottle. Easy to mix as long as water is warmed. And she loves the taste! Plus much more affordable than buying goat milk cartons in the store.
,,,,,good.......,"The kids like to drink, drinking a can of the fast.If the formula is better.and...But to shake to mix evenly."
,,,,,Not 4 Infants,"Others may have a different experience. We were using this as a supplement to mother's milk because mother's milk just did not seem to provide enough fat / protein for baby to gain weight. Problem, although stated that Goat's milk is easier to digest, we found that once we mixed the goat milk with mother's milk, she ate more infrequently and got constipated with indegestion. We had bought this to help with digestion, as Formula is based on cow's milk. This goat's milk seemed to have the opposite effect on our baby, and she didn't gain weight. Also, the taste isn't so great.<br /><br />We can use it as back up, in case we don't have milk in the fridge. So, it's OK, but I probably won't buy again."
,,,,,The best milk for my baby,We wanted to use milk that was lactose free and close to breast milk.  We began using this milk to supplement my breast milk and we now use it full time.  My baby has never had an allergic reaction to it and he doesn't spit up.  It's gentle on his stomach and Amazon has it at an inexpensive price.  I would suggest this milk to any parent that prefers something different than cow's milk.
,,,,,Goat milk,The can looks just like the pic and it really helped my son with his constipation. I love it and he started drinking it with no problem at 2-3months old!!! Love it
,,,,,Supplement infant feeding,"Now that my LO is exclusively formula fed, I use it once a day to supplement his feeds. He took to it after the first two feeds and now likes it very much. The only problem i had was with the powder- it doesn't blend well or instantly, but great product none the less"
,,,,,Simply awesom amazon carries this,we used to get this from our local grocery store for our 10month baby girl but it was $2 more a can and with prime there is no shipping charges as well as no taxes YAY!our baby loves this and it really has cut down on her spitting up.
,,,,,Wonderful for orphan foal with digestive problems,"Our QH mare gave birth to a beautiful Clydesdale/Quarter Horse cross colt 3 weeks ago. It was her first baby and not only did she reject him, but she attacked him. Then he was attacked by a dog because his mother was not protecting him. He spent the first 7 days of his life in an equine neonatal intensive care unit. Regular mare's milk replacer gave him diarrhea, so they added goats milk, which stopped the diarrhea. When we brought him home, we looked for a constant source of goat milk to add to his formula. The Meyenberg powdered goat milk works great! We add it to his formula and he loves it. Even better, he is able to digest his milk better and is thriving. Thank you Amazon and Meyenberg for a product that helped to save our foal's life."
,,,,,great if you travel and need milk,"I don't like non-organic dairy, but this stuff comes close. Goats are not given steroids or hormones as far as i know. the taste is usually very consistent, but it does take some getting used to. the powder mixes very well, and it is handy when on the road and need to mix a protein shake. It improves the taste of protein shakes and that's my favorite thing about this. very recommended."
,,,,,Wonderful formula!,Excellent stuff! My baby is allergic to dairy and soy.<br />This is the only formula she could tolerate. It<br />smells but she loves it! When they are under a year<br />old you add brown rice syrup to give more calories.<br />Then you gradually wean them off of the brown<br />syrup so by the time they are a year they are drinking<br />straight goats milk.
,,,,,a godsend for infants!!,"My 5mo daughter has a severely sensitive stomach associated to an iron intolerance. She's been formula fed since the beginning due to my personal choice. I went through 8 different commerical milk-based and soy-based formulas. A good friend of ours suggested goat's milk. Her nephew was a failure to thrive baby and the ONLY formula he didn't throw up was Goat's Milk. I can easily find the liquid Goat's Milk at our local grocery store. Unfortunately, I have yet to come across the powder at said grocery store. I was home visiting my parents and was in search of the liquid, but found the powder. Strange that a smaller grocery store in a much smaller metropolitian area would have the powder versus a very large grocery store in the US's 4th largest metropolitian who just has the liquid.<br /><br />Anyways, after 8 weeks of trial & error, we have a very happy 5mo baby. I wish would have found this milk earlier.<br />I added a mixture of goat's milk and pulp-free, plain coconut water into my daughter's feedings and it not only has cleaned her system out, but has stopped the colic, vomiting, reflux, constipation AND to replace her electrolytes. Again, I will repeat. Lower iron content equals happier, calmer baby. We still have the lingering green poops compliments of the iron oxidation; however, the iron tolerance has been greatly minimized. No colic, no vomiting, no reflux and no constipation. She has one bottle of coconut water/goat's milk every day just to keep the GI tract from metabolizing the excess iron proteins and to replace her ever so important electrolytes. Ironically, she actually takes this formula mixture better than the traditional formulas!!"
,,,,,Worked great for us,"I use this for my twins and they love it, never had any problems. I just wish it were cheaper!"
,,,,,Not so goaty- which is Good!,Wonderful product! I began to use it for my daughter who was about to turn a year old. She took it with no problems! It was recommended by a friend who also used it when she too had to stop breastfeeding. Much better for a child in my eyes. I had tried a formula sample I had received in the mail- it left a greasy film in the bottle... gross. This does not! My daughter will drink it warm or cold- so easy for on the go as well. The canned was a bit harsh and she wasn't into it.. it tastes like a goat smells- this just has a suttle hint of goat. LoL
,,,,,Love Goat Milk!,I use goat milk for everything.  I use it to replace cow milk in all my recipes and for coffee and it works well for me.  The price is great!  Highly recommend it.
,,,,,CJ gives it two thumbs up!,"Decent price...arrived on time.  No complaints here.  We will continue to purchase this item.<br />My daughter loves her ""goat milk"".  :)"
,,,,,good goat milk!,"I use this to make goat milk yogurt.  Very tasty.<br />Needs to be well stirred, but well worth the time."
,,,,,Great Product,"I have been exclusively breat feeding my son, so when the 6 month mark came up and had to introduce solids I was nervous. I knew breastmilk was the best thing to mix cereal with, but I really didnt want to mess with the hassel of pumping! I tried whole milk (ok per pediatrician), which made him so fussy :-(, then water, he wouldn't eat it. Then I did actually try some breastmilk I had frozen from the early weeks of nursing, he still refused it! I then heard on the Dr. Oz show that goats milk is most like breat milk and thats what brought me to this product! I was so happy to find this product for him, he eats his cereal with no problems now and absolutly no tummy problems either :-) No pumping and no formula needed! Couldn't ask for anything better! Highly reccomended!"
,,,,,meyenberg powdered goat milk,This stuff is fantastic.  My little girl loves it and it gives me the piece of mind knowing that I am not feeding her a huge amount of sugar with mainstream formulas.  Not to mention the other things they have found in them recently.  This is the closest thing to mothers milk.  If your baby spits up a lot you should definitely try this stuff.  My little girl hasn't spit up since I switched ever.  Love it.  Just wish I could buy even more at a time.
,,,,,Excellent product!!,"I started my son on this powdered milk and he transitioned easily from breast milk without any problems.  I use a gallon container and mix the whole can (3 quarts) at once with luke warm water and it works out perfectly. I really like this company and their product and love that this milk is also Vit D fortified.  Once my son gets older and he consumes less milk we will transition to the fresh goat milk, since right now it doesn't fit in our budget."
,,,,,Great real milk alternative!,My daughter is sensitive to cow's milk so we tried Goat milk and it works well. Amazon is the cheapest place to purchase this stuff! The powder sometimes has a hard time mixing with the water.  But not too bad.  Recommend to anyone needing a healthy alternative to cow's milk.
,,,,,love it - u could chase me w/cow's milk though!,"In a world toxic from factory farming, unnatural additives/feed (mad cow anyone?) making sick cows (RBGh and pus in the milk) I avoid any dairy not from grass-fed cows. If you shop organic, you know how expensive this is for animal products.So far as I know, goat dairy is free from these evils.<br /><br />I tried goat products after reading a couple books on natural diet and healing by Dr Jordan Rubin. ""The Maker's Diet"" is good, but the protocols repetitive, and he is of course promoting his products he designed to recover from Crohn's. Coconut oil and goat milk were important for reasons you need to read yourself. Anyhow, it helped me, improve my health too.I find I have less congestion, allergies, and sinus problems.<br /><br />The ""goaty"" flavor can be overcome by a gradual switchover mixing some goat milk into whatever milk you use - be it cow's, soy, rice. After a while you will not notice it much, then you may like it! I bet after a month or two of no cow's milk, you will taste ""cowy"" flavor in it. Our tastebuds change.<br /><br />I like both the evaporated and powdered milks. My cats do too - and it has been okay for feeding a sick cat who couldn't manage solid food.<br /><br />I am going to make some cultured goat milk products, since yogurt is over $2 a plastic cup in Ohio. Maybe cheese will be next - goat farmers cheese? mmm."
,,,,,GoAt Nutrition,"It is a very nice milk powder. I don't have any allergies in particular but I am genetically lactose intolerant. If I have more than 2 glasses of milk in a day, my stomach will feel all acidic. I don't face that same problem with this milk. I drink this over the liquid one sold at stores because this has more value for money and has got folic acid in it. Be warned though, if you don't like the smell of goat meat, you might not particularly like this since it has a bit of that smell. It mixes very well with hot water and not so well with normal water. Despite all of that, I love it and use it to make my milkshake."
,,,,,toddler - milk substitute,"My 15 month old has been on this for 3 months and loves it.<br />It is easy to make,(you do have to shake it a bit when you make it).<br />we add probiotics to it, for a little extra immune boosting and it<br />works great as a substitute for milk.<br />our naturalpathic doc tells us this is easier on the toddlers digestive<br />system and may even aid in less ear infections.<br />so far so good!<br />amazon has the best deal we could find also!"
,,,,,Love it!,This is a really good source for goats milk. I found this online at Amazon and it is the least expensive price I've found. I order it regularly.
,,,,,Great product and timely delivery,I am very pleased with my recent purchase of Meyeberg powdered goat milk.  I have shopped around locally and this is by far the best price per can I could find.  It was delivered as promised.
,,,,,Great Dog Food Additive,"We put this (in powdered form) on our dogs' food as a supplement (according to breeder instructions) with great results.  It sort of stinks, but the dogs love it and they're both better eaters with it than without."
,,,,,Just as described!,Excellent service. Goat milk is delivered in premium condition.I will continue to order online. Thank you.
,,,,,Great Alternative,"My son is allergic to cow's milk, and this is a great nutritious alternative!  Plus, it's more like breastmilk."
,,,,,"shipped fast, great quality!","This is a great price, and easy way to purchase powdered goats milk.  The cheapest I've found, and the quickest shipping I've ever experienced from Amazon."
,,,,,Goat Milk,This is the best alternative to cows milk for the first 2 years.  My daughter loves it and it is easier for her to digest and has been known to lesson the occurance of certain allergies in children in given in place of whole milk that is recommended up 'til age 2.  This is my second child that I am using it with and I love it and so do they.
,,,,,Yummy Goat's Milk,"We love this product. We've also got our little grandbaby hooked on it, when she comes to visit. She's now 2. We feel more comfortable with her drinking goat milk than cow's milk - much easier to digest. Love that Meyenberg.  Sometimes, though, we find better prices elsewhere on the Internet."
,,,,,All that and less $ than our local store,"Thanks a-lot for the Review Starflakes.  We haven't made ice cream with it yet, we will be trying it.  Our daughter is now 3, and is also allergic to cows milk and soy.  We found it works well in recipes that can support the heavy cream or buttermilk flavor, like pancakes and mashed potatoes.<br /><br />To the person with the bad review, We had a lot of trouble transitioning to other milks.  We currently mix the whole can plus a quart of fresh milk to make a gallon and a half (weaker concentration than suggested).  Our daughter also demands that we heat it to at least lukewarm (45 sec in microwave).  I thank starflakes again for the explanation that it does taste better warm.<br /><br />We will also sometimes add in a pint of goat yogurt in our blend (usually to the half gallon portion).  We bought a few cans of the condensed for emergency use, when we tried to use the can on a trip, she wouldn't drink it (though we didn't have the normal to blend it with).<br /><br />Even blending it with a quart of fresh milk, we go through 2-3 cans a week, and started buying it by the case when our local store couldn't keep up with our demand, even then we frequently buy them out waiting for the next case.  Hopefully the online supply is more reliable in addition to costing less."
,,,,,Life Altering Milk,"I do not drink cow milk and was on soy which was sinking me further into estrogen dominance.  Remembering that I had liked goat milk when I had the opportunity to drink it fresh from the goat in my home country.  I started to do some research online to see if it would be a good substitute and what do you know, it was.  Yes it is not fresh straight from the goat milk, but being able to have it again has been a blessing.  Thank you Mayenberg for both the powdered and evaporated milk.  Thank you Amazon for offering it a price that is not breaking my purse."
,,,,,a little sour but great for baking with,"I don't find the taste of this goat milk very pleasing if mixed to use in liquid form; I've had fresh goat milk and frankly, this does not come anywhere close even with reasonable expectations because of the powered form. It does however have its use in my kitchen in baked goods where the flavor even if slightly sour can be of use. Certain bread, pancakes and the like do very well if I add this mix instead of other milks or water. Good to have in the pantry for those ""just-in case"" days."
,,,,,great product!,My baby is allergic to cow's milk and this is so much cheaper and better than the hypoallergenic formula.  He loves this stuff!
,,,,,"Tastes good, but not allergy-free.","Arrived in good condition, looks like well-made cans. Tastes nice, and I would love to use this product, but unfortunately, i got an allergic reaction from it."
,,,,,Dry mixed with evaporated? Why and how much?,"I've been drinking/using the fresh Goat's milk for years. I've recently bought the dry milk<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001E5DZTS"">Meyenberg Powdered Goat Milk, Vitamin D, 12-Ounce Cans (Pack of 3)</a> in hope of saving a little money. It does taste a little powdery. I can't drink it straight, where I used to with the fresh. I noticed on the Amazon page where it says....customers who bought this also bought....evaporated goat's milk<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000EY5COG"">Meyenberg Evaporated Goat Milk, 12-Ounce Cans (Pack of 12)</a>. I'm wondering if this makes it creamier or taste better. I hope to get some feedback from those who have tried combining the two and what quantity of dry to what quantity of evaporated? I'm trying not to give up on the dry yet.<br />Thank you, Vicki"
,,,,,Lacks modern chemicals,"This stuff apparently has a shelf life of many weeks, even after opening. And it tastes ok in tea and coffee, once you get used to it, which is more than I can say for soy milk.<br /><br />But, I give it just 4 stars because it's so hard to mix. Now, if they added some modern chemicals to allow easier mixing, even if it caused an allergic reaction, I still wouldn't vote for Newt Gingrich."
,,,,,NO MORE MEYENBERG!,"THE CAN DOES NOT SAY ""NO ANTIBIOTICS"". I called the company and asked why the can does not say this.  First, she tells me that THEY HAVE NO ANTIBIOTICS BUT the FDA won't allow them to put it on their can.  I said ""lots of companies put no antibiotics on their label"".  Then she said we are making a new label.  I felt a definate flippant attitude.  I felt like she just wanted me to get off the phone.<br /><br />Well, I just canceled my autoship for their goat milk. I am now looking for another goat milk that puts ""no antibiotics"" on their label.  I know that there are some good goat milk companies that do this."
,,,,,Yummy Cheesecake Dessert,"This is great for a quick, easy, versatile dessert when you don't want to heat up the oven. Although it doesn't taste exactly like cheesecake, it's a pretty good cheesecake-like dessert for the price. I like to make the mini-cheesecakes suggested on the box and top them with fruit. One note of caution: Amazon's cost per box is a little high. In this pack of 12, each box of mix costs about $2.30, but a box costs around $1.80 in my local Target. So, I recommend this product, and I suggest buying it at a local store."
,,,,,Very Very Good!,"I love this product. It is so easy to make and it's done in minutes. It has a great flavor, and I love that there are so many packs because as soon as you finish one you want another."
,,,,,Love this stuff!,"This Cheesecake is easy to make and easy to love!  I love to bake but don't always have the time to start a cheesecake from scratch when I need one.  It's easy to make this unique with adding swirled chocolate sauce or cherries to decorate...I like making the mini ones, people can pick one up and devour!"
,,,,,Yummy at your convience!,Love this because 1. it is easy to make<br />  2. You get a good amount for your money!
,,,,,Jell-o No Bake Cheesecake,"I love Jell-o No Bake Cheesecake but was disappointed the shelf life was so short. I got it after Christmas and the expiration date was April 8,2011.  Had I known that before I ordered I would have never ordered.  12 boxes is a lot to use up in only 3 months. I will not order again."
,,,,,$136 for 12 boxes?,$136 for 12 boxes?<br /><br />Is this a rare item?<br /><br />That's $11.33 a box.<br /><br />I think the item might be a bit overpriced.
,,,,,It's alright.,"I'm rather conflicted about this product. Granted, it does taste like actual chrysanthemum tea (like the ones you get at dim sum places) when brewed hot, however it tastes bad when iced and mixed with sugar. It doesn't taste like chrysanthemum tea at all once it's iced and combined with sugar. The tea is enjoyable hot without sugar but it is way too light. I need to double or triple the recommended amount of blossoms to get a decent amount of flavor and by then I'm pretty much done with the entire canister. Too pricey for me."
,,,,,chrysanthemum tea taste great with lemons and Apriva,chrysanthemum tea taste great with lemons and Apriva. chrysanthemum tea is caffeine free that's great for pregnant women and those with high blood pressure.
,,,,,Like little glistening rubies...,"After recently having a chance to try out all the flavors of these brand new David's Signature Beyond Gourmet Jelly Beans, I have to say the Pomegranate is by far my favorite. The flavor is just perfect. Sweet, but not too sweet. Not tart or overpowering in flavor. It's mild and the taste is just right. The beans appearance is even beautiful! With their rich red color and shine, they look like little glistening rubies that catch the light. You can even taste the difference in how these are made using natural ingredients and coloring. They actually have a fresh taste to them. Not hard, artificial and stale tasting like so many other brands. These are a truly gourmet jelly beans."
,,,,,Outstanding Flavor - Highly Recommended,"These David's Signature Beyond Gourmet ""Pomegranate"" jelly beans are spot on in flavor and are just fantastic tasting. This flavor is from David Klein, the creator of the famous ""Jelly Belly"" jelly beans, so I was thrilled to be offered this in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B007JBO41E"">David's Signature Beyond Gourmet Jelly Beans Flavor Sampler</a> to review since my family loves jelly beans.<br /><br />I also really like that these jelly beans are made with natural flavors and colors.<br /><br />Highly Recommended!<br /><br />CFH"
,,,,,"Great ""On the Go"" snack!",Great on the go snack to take in the car for my 3 and 5 year old! NO MESSY HANDS like other snacks. Keeps the car much cleaner! :) Also great for me as a Weight Watcher snack with a wedge of Laughing Cow Lite Cheese! YUM!!!
,,,,,"IF YOU HAVE A PEANUT ALLERGY, BEWARE","My husband says these pretzels are great and he loves them.  However, on the box I saw a warning that says the pretzels are made in a facility that produces peanut butter.  Therefore, I can't eat them.  So for those of you with peanut/nut allergy I would urge caution."
,,,,,One Word. Delicious.,"They're not hard as a rock, or so soft that if you dip them, they'll break. For a diet pretzel, these are great (but then again, Snyders of Hanover has been at it for a long time)."
,,,,,Pretzel - snack attack form,"Pretzels are too easy to just keep eating until the bag is done.  Therefore, a 100 calorie option gives me the pause I need ( before I open another snack sized bag), to decide - and therefore think before just eating all 60 packages (yikes!)  We use them in lunches, as snacks, as halloween treats, at the beach, at the pool, at work, in the car (now I am becoming a Dr. Seuss book).<br /><br />The shipments we have received (2 so far) have not been stale, soggy or out of date."
,,,,,Snyder's of Hanover Pretzels,"As a motorcoach tour operator, I'm always looking for high-quality, reasonably priced snacks to offer to my customers on my trips.  Snyder's is a respected brand and I appreciate being able to purchase bulk quantities of their pretzels at such a great low price."
,,,,,Great price and yummy!,"This is a great deal for the amount of pretzel packs that are given. We love these since they're only 100 calories each and perfect for a snack, pair with a sandwich, or just to stick in your purse if you get hungry."
,,,,,"100 calorie pretzels, yummy","They are just that - 100 calorie bags of pretzels. Snyder's tends to have one of the best tasting pretzels according to my taste buds. These bags create instant portion control and are a great value for the price, especially with subscribe and save. I also throw them in the kids' lunch bags and keep some in the car for road trips."
,,,,,Too healthy for most people in my office,"Great buy but it seems that they are not very popular in my office (less healthy chip snacks are more popular) Still a great product, fresh and tastes like a pretzel should without any additives."
,,,,,Are you serious?,"Do you seriously need a review for pretzels? It's either going to be ""These pretzels are delicious!"" or maybe ""These pretzels are disgusting!"" Thats pretty much all you can say about pretzels. I personally think they are delicious, but of course i like pretzels, if you dont, then youll probably want to go the other way on this one."
,,,,,A darn good pretzel,"I personally think these are the best pretzels on earth. I have to admit, that when it comes to eating pretzels, these are the first in my mouth."
,,,,,A longtime favorite coffee in our home!,First thing in the morning it is nice to have a hot cup of coffee to wake you up while you watch the news.  We have always drunk Maxwell house coffee and even when I was a child my parents used it.  It is one of the best coffee brands available.  As we have gotten older we needed to consume less caffeine and we actually brew a mixture of part of this coffee and part of the Maxwell House Decaf blend.  It helps us reduce our caffeine and we still get to enjoy our coffee in the morning with just a little kick in it.<br /><br />The price of the coffee here is about the right list price but the shipping is a killer adder.  On sale at a local store we get it for less than half the price and no shipping.  This is a very good product and I recommend it to you.
,,,,,Fantastic deal!,"For coffee drinkers who buy Maxwell House coffee, this is a deal!  Buy two cases for just over $50!  Free shipping, too!  Seriously, you know I stocked up!"
,,,,,Good To The Very Last Drop,"When it does come down to my mornings, I always do enjoy a good cup of coffee to start my days off right. But, I have chosen to drink more ground coffee than instant these days. But it has also been much harder finding the right kind of great tasting cup, and that does definitely come well with Maxwell House and the simple Original Roast Blend. The taste is definitely simple and not too string for most new coffee drinkers, but elequent enough to get your mornings off to a great start with each and every savory cup. While there aren't many great brands of coffee that've shown that test of time, Maxwell House has been one that hasn't lost its shine. I absolutely recommend this brand each and every time.<br /><br />Price: B+<br /><br />Taste: B+<br /><br />Overall: B+"
,,,,,Good Deal,"My husband is a big coffee drinker, and with a deal like this I can order ahead and never have to worry about running out. I hate to have to run to the store because I am out of one thing."
,,,,,hey they're oreos...,what can i say... great cookies. the only way to improve it is if it came with some cold milk.
,,,,,Yay!,"What's to say about Oreos?  The originals are still the best & I don't get them often because gluttony overcomes me.  One, two, or even a few isn't possible for me."
,,,,,Not exactly what I thought I was getting.,"Pamela's Baking and Pancake Mix is very, very good.  However, know when you order in the small packages you are not getting the baking mix.  You are getting individual (or for two people) servings of pancake and waffle mix.  This formula is different than that for the larger packages of Baking and Pancake Mix and does not make biscuits, muffins, or other short breads very well, too sweet for my taste.  If you are looking for great tasting pancake or waffles in a smaller package, then this is for you.  If you are looking for a great baking mix as well as pancakes and waffles, then get the larger packages."
,,,,,My New Favorite Cheese,"I've tried many different cheeses, and I have to say Gorgonzola is my most favorite.<br /><br />The texture, aroma and flavor is both bold and pleasant yet not overbearing.<br /><br />A highly recommended cheese for novice cheese enthusiasts."
,,,,,mary lou,I love this mix. i use it  in several different recipes. Its moist and has a good consistency. The only problem is that  its difficult to find and I end up buying it on line!  Any suggestions???
,,,,,GREAT PRODUCT IN PERFECT SIZE CAN!,I have been drinking V-8 juice for many years. Ordering it from Amazon by the case with free shipping(Prime) allows me to have it on hand in a convenient can with the right amount for my needs.
,,,,,"Great packaging, great taste!","The package arrived with all the cans inside of a cardboard tray that was shrink wrapped.  There was no damage to the cans and they tasted just fine.<br /><br />As far as V-8 itself...<br /><br />I enjoy using V-8 as a meal replacement (replacing a greasy breakfast).  Think of it as tomato soup with a little less flavoring.  It was an acquired taste for me that I have since come to enjoy.  If you find that the original is a bit on the bland side, you can try the spicy flavor as a nice alternative.  The only drawback is that spicy has a bit more sodium."
,,,,,great for diabetic husband,"He says it tastes great and is a great snack for his diabetes.  Good source of vitamins for him.  Great shipping, on our second order."
,,,,,Great,Great price and we did not have to leave the house and shop.  I really love the fact that there is no trouble with ordering.  Great product.
,,,,,disappointed,"I ordered two 24 can packs of 11.5 oz. V-8 juice, which were boxed together and filled with inflated plastic to buffer. When i opened the box, although all the flip-tabs appeared to be intact, one can had leaked some of it's contents and the juice was all over the other cans and inside the box. I weighed the cans to find out which one/s had leaked and that's how i determined which one to throw away.(the weight of the cans varied, but the variance was consistent, except one can was a few ounces short)  I am hoping it was just from the one can and i don't turn up with salmonella down the road. Since this was a UPS delivery, i am kind of surprised that amount of pressure was put on this package. Usually get superior service from them. I have ordered like this in the past, and the product arrived in perfect condition, so as i said, i was disappointed this time."
,,,,,its V8!,"Yes it is mainly a tomato juice and yes it has sodium in it, but it is definitely still better than drinking coke and its just a better alternative of drinks to bring to school or work =)"
,,,,,i like it,tastes like v8 cuz it is v8 :o) ... delivered on time... my doctor says i dont get as much nutrition benefit as i thought i did because of the pasteurization process... but i dont eat lots of veggies and i like this stuff sooooo i drink it anyway...
,,,,,Great Substitute!,"I have been a vegetarian for 15 years and have a meat eating husband.  For years, I have been looking for a good ground beef substitute.  I finally found one.  This one had a good taste and texture when cooked.  My meat eating husband is even happy with it when I use it.  One of the things I love is that I use this to make meatballs, and they stay together.  In the past, they never stayed together.  This is a great product, and I'm happy I found it."
,,,,,Meaty texture,Very meaty texture for a vegetarian product.  Looks like fresh ground beef after you mix it with water.  I would recommend this product.  I also want to try the sausage variety.
,,,,,Very good substitute for ground meat,"I first received a bag of Harmony valley as a prize on a contest on ecorazzi.com. I was very pleasantly surprised at the texture and taste. I made stuffed green peppers with it just as you would a traditional recipe substituting the mix. My husband, who is a avid meat eater really enjoyed it and said he would not mind eating more often. I also made the sausage style in an omelet with peppers and onions and it was tasty. I ordered a pack of six of the burger mix right here on amazon!"
,,,,,Meat Eater Likes This Hamburger Mix,"I'm a meat eater, my wife's vegetarian.  She picked some of this veggie burger mix up to try, and we both really like it!  I'm not saying it tastes like beef, but I don't believe it's supposed to.  It's really good!  And I'd recommend it to anyone:)"
,,,,,Best Veggie burger mix I have tried!,"I have been a Vegetarian for about a year now, so I am relatively new to the meat substitute market.  But this is by far the best Veggie burger mix I have tried.  Far better then any of the frozen patties you can get in grocery stores.  An added bonus is the versatility of the mix.  You can use it for many different things instead of just being stuck with patty form like the frozen variety.  My meat eating girlfriend really likes this as well, and she tends to be pretty picky."
,,,,,Harmony Valley Vegetarian Mix,"I tried the vegetarian hamburger mix and I liked it more than any other burger substitute I've tried. I made it into salsbury steaks and topped them with a mushroom gravy. Delicious!<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00474H936"">Harmony Valley Vegetarian Hamburger Mix, 5.7-Ounce (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,Delicious Meat Substitute,I have used Harmony Valley hamburger substitute several times now and have been very happy. It is spiced and tastes pretty close to a meatball mixture. When used in sauce or to stuff peppers I cannot tell that it is not hamburger meat. I was thrilled with its performance and its ease of use.  I can't wait to try it in other recipes.
,,,,,Very Tasty!,"Great product!<br /><br />I purchased this product from our local Fresh Market. I am a vegan and am always looking for different ""meat"" substitutes to try. I used this mix to make some taco mince. This stuff was perfect! I even got my non veg. father to try a bite of the tacos and he thought they were good as well. That right there is saying something, because my father is really iffy about mock meats.<br /><br />I have another packet in which I am going to cook up today!"
,,,,,IT's the BEST,"Some of my family are vegetarians but the rest are die-hard meat eaters. This is one product that the whole family will eat.  We like it as burgers but we LOVE it as meatloaf and meatballs in spaghetti.  We like that it keeps a good texture even when simmered in sauce.  I love that it has the texture and 'bite' that hamburger has.  As an extra bonus, I'm on Weight Watchers and it's low in points!"
,,,,,"Mixed review: convenient, okay taste, bad stomach problems","I bought this mainly because another review (can't remember if it was on Amazon or another site) said it was better than Morningstar Farms crumbles and because it is GMO free. Now, I've been a vegetarian since I was thirteen (and that was decades ago), but I am the sort that DOES want fake meat resembling meat. I've little interest in a mushroom-quinoa burger; I want a meaty-yet-vegetarian burger with mushroom quinoa on the side. Also, I'm a professional chef, so I'm very picky about the foods I eat.<br /><br />I'm saying this because I think it is important to know what the reviewer likes to eat when you base your purchase on a review.<br /><br />Tonight, I used the Harmony Valley hamburger mix in lasagna alla bolognese. I also did the same recipe with the MF crumbles to compare. Two things I was curious about:<br /><br />1) flavor: they're *kind of* about the same, especially considering I was adding a browned mirepoix, marmite, and veg Worcestershire ... I guess I should fry up a patty of just the HV mix, but I did eat a raw spoonful and it was okay, but blander than MF<br /><br />2) texture: MF wins. It just does (sorry, MF haters). It has larger pieces with a more meat-like texture. Plus, even after absorbing water in the fridge and then simmering on the stove, the HV was too wet.<br /><br />Now, the reviewer who also liked it better than MF also said something about it holding together on its own and that MF doesn't. Well, that's true. This was thick and stuck to itself, much more like the texture of ground meat - if you were to puree it. I use MF often in meatballs, and it holds together when bound with eggs and cheese. I guess that's the difference; I don't just want to thaw or add water and *poof* have dinner. I expect to cook with an ingredient, the same as I would with real beef.<br /><br />So I wasn't bowled over in those ways, but I liked it. HV hamburger mix is good and I'm sure it will be useful, which is also a plus - no worry about not having bought a bag of frozen crumbles, you've got a half dozen packets at home. I have a tiny little freezer for someone who cooks for a living, so it is always an issue for me to be able to keep ingredients at home. And although I've seen some reviews complaining about the 15-20 wait for the HV mix to absorb water in the fridge ... really? Those people can't wait half an hour for a burger? If you want an instant veggie burger that can be microwaved in the time it takes you to grab the ketchup, buy a frozen burger. I think this mix will be good in better handmade veggie burgers and I look forward to trying!<br /><br />Addendum:<br /><br />After eating the lasagna made with the HV mix, both my husband and I experienced horrible stomach bloating and pain. I'm apparently a glutton for punishment, though, because I decided to give it another try and made meatballs with it yesterday. Not only did they not turn out as good as my usual ones (made with MF crumbles and Lightlife sausage), they had a sort of rubbery texture that I really did not care for. But, blander and texture I can overlook, except AGAIN, the product gave us both the same horrible stomach bloating pains and gas. Ugh!"
,,,,,Yummy!,We just received a package of the hamburger mix from one of our dearest friends as a gift. We loved it. I am vegetarian and my husband is a meat eater. I whipped up some stuffed bell peppers using the mix and it was delicious. I love that it is a great price as well!
,,,,,Make this your #1 product for Meatless Mondays !,"I Love all three products that Harmony Valley has but the Vegetarian Hamburger Mix is my familys favorite,we love to make Taco Salad, Sloppy Joes,Meatless Meatballs, Hamburgers,Salisbury Steak,Spaghetti with this great product , if you love the store bought Vegi burgers that are found in the frezzer section of your store these are 100 times better & so fresh tasting & GMO FREE ! Thanks Harmony Valley for making such a great & safe to eat product! p.s. the plant is ran on wind power !! ""GMO FREE is the way for me """
,,,,,Great product but a little salty!,"I have tried almost every kind of ""fake meat"" product out there. While I really like the Morning Stars and the Boca ""ground meat"" you can't really make them into anything.<br /><br />This product was great. Soak it for 15 minutes in water, and viola you have a really good ground meat you can make something out of,  The only problem is that it tends to be a little saly for my taste, so be carefull when you are seasoning it."
,,,,,Helps with Fat Smash Diet,"I'm not vegetarian, but I'm on the fat smash diet by Dr. Ian. The 1st few days he suggest going meatless before building a foundation and reintroducing chicken, fish, and then other meats. I made chili with this. It doesn't taste just like meat or anything like that, but the texture is spot on when u mix in a bunch of other things. I'm not sure how it would turn out just on a bun. If I go that route I will have to season very well. Before making the chili I was a little worried so i cooked up all my veggies and seasoning in a separate pot. Browned this ""beef"" in another pan and added it into the mix later. Cooking this alone it smelled funny, and I was worried it would taste the way it smelled. I'm very sensitive to smell and taste of things. I can taste this in the mix of things but not so much. More than anything I'm busy looking for a taste. One thing I can say is the texture is pretty good for the consistency of meat except its much lighter and thinner less clumpy than real ground beef. If I had to give up beef for the rest of my life and pick this I wouldn't but if cows disappeared off the face of the earth I would be fine with taking this as a substitute."
,,,,,heart healthy tea,"good tea -- good for blood pressure. tastes good and smells good too.webvitamins good place to order from. fast and efficient, especially with amazon as the go-between."
,,,,,Great for Blood Pressure,I have been drinking three cups of this tea for the last month and a half.  I just had my annual checkup with my doctor and my blood pressure was 108/60!!!!  After years of it being it the 140's or 135's my blood pressure is now like a young person and I am in my sixties.  I had been monitoring my blood pressure at home and it was good but usually when I see the doctor it shoots up because I am nervous but not this time.  My doctor was thrilled.  I totally believe that this tea has lowered my blood pressure and I will continue drinking it.  I steep it for 10 minutes.  I have two cups after breakfast and one cup after dinner.  It tastes good and I don't put any sweetener in it.  I highly recommend it as it did work for me.
,,,,,Hisbiscus Tea and Blood Pressure,"I have been drinking hibiscus tea off and on since 1984.  When I went to Germany in 1984, my mother told me that it is quite popular there for blood pressure issues, so every day while I was there I drank it.  When I came back to the US I found it and drank it for a number of years.<br /><br />About a year ago my husband's blood pressure became elevated because of health problems he is experieincing.  So, I went to the local co-op and got some hibiscus tea.  Ever since he started drinking it his blood pressure has been in the normal range -- well under 120/80."
,,,,,NICE FRUITY FLAVOR!,"Hibiscus Tea 24 Bags, I've got this tea for my Dad to help him with his Blood Pressure, it is a little early to tell. I also taking it myself, I like all kinds of Tea, Green, Triple Leaf Tea, this one has a very deep purple color and nice Fruity Flavor, I really like it. Hibiscus Tea is the combination of two herbs. Hibiscus is cultivated throughout the tropics, its flowers are highly prized for making Jams, Jellies, sauces and Beverages<br /><br />Lemongrass is a sub-tropical herb known for its strong citrus flavor and aroma. It became a popular edition to Tea blends in the 1970s and was quickly accepted in Europe. By blending these tropical flavours together, they have created a tart and fruity Tea that is Kid friendly and truly wonderful hot or cold. I also like the fact that this Tea does not contain any Caffeine, that usually keeps me up, no problem with Hibiscus Tea. It tastes Great! Thank You"
,,,,,didn't like its taste,I tried many teas and thought would try this kind. Saw it on Dr. OZ show. Didn't like its taste.
,,,,,nice flavor without sugar,Tastes great.Does not need sugar.I am trying to see if my pressure goes down.I will update later J
,,,,,Don't like the taste,I do not like sour taste and this has a sour kind of taste which i don't like. The smell isn't that great either
,,,,,Tea,Great tasting tea and very healthy.  I was very surprised and will probably be ordering more.  It does cost - but the cheapest I have found.
,,,,,Celebration herbals-Hibiscus Tea,"This is good tasting tea, no need for sugar....I am drinking one cup per day usually at mid- day for blood pressure...........I am not sure how long it takes to help lower BP but if it helps even a little it's worth drinking especially since its very tasty........"
,,,,,Celebration's Hibiscus tea,"In an effort to reverse augmenting high blood pressure, a physician recommended I drink hibiscus herbal tea. Kudos to Celebration Herbals for delivering the tea one day after the order was placed. I followed instructions on the box and used spring water which was  steeped for approximately ten minutes. Although the primary reason for drinking the tea was medicinal, I also wanted a flavorable tea. Sadly the taste of the tea was unexceptional. Accordingly, the next box of hibiscus tea that I purchase will not be from Celebration Herbals."
,,,,,super tasty,"I love to make sun tea with these tea bags, it is very nice on a hot day to sit with a chilled glass. It is tasty and not too sweet, highly recommended!"
,,,,,Yummy tea!!,I love this tea from Arizona tea hot or cold.  I call it my bubble gum tea.  This is a very pleasing tea that has a wonderful aroma and taste just like the Arizona tea in the bottles only hot.  It is very relaxing in the evening or invigorating in the morning or anytime for that matter.  I highly recommend it if you like Green Tea.
,,,,,Love this tea,"I am not a fan of green teas, but I really love this one.  It has a nice ""non-tea"" taste.  It's hard to find in stores so I got the 6 pack.  Great price and shipped really fast."
,,,,,Great as iced tea.,This makes great iced tea. More flavor than regular tea. Refreshing. Recommend it. Hard to find in stores. Get it here.
,,,,,Excellent tea!,"I have always enjoyed this particular tea, plain and simple.  A great green tea with a hint of ginseng and honey!  I buy it on Amazon because I can't find it in my area, so it's worth it!"
,,,,,Great,This product was difficult to find in stores but easy to find through Amazon.  I will order items by this method again.
,,,,,YUCK!!,"i got this in the mail nice packaging and all opened it up to see its single serving bags 3oz of hot water to a bag ...not gallon size =( so i decided to make some and it tasted like the little pink bubble gum ""double bubble"" i used to get as a kid yuck so not what i was expecting..."
,,,,,Tasteless,"Tasteless, basically says it all.  I love tea.  Drink it every day.  I found this undrinkable.  Great packaging, but not a good tea for me."
,,,,,Strange...,"I like the taste, but the store does not always has this.  Some-how it tastes different from the one in the store, much weaker caffeine and aroma..."
,,,,,Awful taste! Don't buy it!!,"I bought this tea cause I had consumed the one from the bottle and I like that one.<br />However in tea bag is not just tasting totally and completely different, but additionally tastes really<br />horrible... believe me, I even tried to give it to my co workers for free after they tried it and they did not accept it.<br />In my opinion It tasted like Serum :s. Now I have 100 tea bags wasting space, probably soon they'll go to the waste bascket.<br /><br />It's sad... I thought it would taste like the bottle or at least close, but totally a disappointment."
,,,,,Great boost!,"I love this stuff!  I sit in front of a computer all day at work, it's easy to get tired, not to mention I've always had trouble sleeping, so I never get a full 7 or 8 hours of sleep, more like an average of 4 or 5 hours per night.  I was surprised at how quickly it boosted me but I certainly didn't feel the shakes or jittery at all.  I felt more awake, and I didn't crash from it later.  It wears off gradually after a few hours but it helps to get through the main part of the day.  I don't use it every day but on occassion when I need a boost."
,,,,,Possibly The Best Energy Drink Out There!,I have had possibly every energy drink and this one is possibly the best. Great energy and no crash. Mixes well with everything and my friends love it. Will buy again!
,,,,,great taste,"I first tried this energy drink on a 1500 mile ""Iron Butt"" motorcycle ride in which you have 36 hours to complete,not an easy task, but AMMO energy shots kept me alert. Small container, so carrying a few was compact. No adverse affects from the caffeine. We had the After Dark flavor and now I want to try the others."
,,,,,POOR DESCRIPTION,"I didn't order because it doesn't indicate anywhere what size the bottle is, I think that's basic information, maybe you should include that in your description"
,,,,,Curry Ket.,I ushally get this curry cat. at the store but they stopped carring it.  It helps me remember the tast of some foods from Germany.  I will shop here again when I need some more.
,,,,,Fantastic,"I went to a gourmet store and asked for their ""Chocolate Expert"" to recommend a chocolate among the high-end makers.  He pointed out this brand, which was affordable as well as incredibly flavorful.  If you need a chocolate to melt in your mouth, savor the Santander 53% cocoa."
,,,,,Perfect,"This 53% percent cocoa semi-dark chocolate bar is the perfect choice for people who dont usually like dark chocolate.  Tasting nothing at all likke common dark chocolates like Hershey's (yuck), Santander's quality is excellent.  I highly recommend this and all other Santander chocaltes."
,,,,,This is their best bar by far,"Santanders 53% semi-sweet dark chocolate bar is by far their best bar in my opinion. The 65% is pretty good also, but it's more smooth and balanced, whereas the 53% is just goodness from start to finish and has a wonderful creamy flavor.<br /><br />I've tried their 53%, 65%, 70% and also their espresso 70% one - the 53% is the best (by a long shot), then the 65% comes in 2nd place. The others are very good too, but don't quite have the amazing overall rich/creamy wonderfulness of the 53% bar.<br /><br />If you are not sure which bar to buy, the 53% bar is an excellent choice. If you like See's candy and/or Godiva, then you'll be right at home with this bar. It's one of the single best dark chocolate bars I have ever had in my life."
,,,,,NOT What I Ordered,"Wolfgang Puck recently changed their Chicken soup. The old stuff is excellent. The new stuff is watered down, not filling and doesn't taste as good. The image and description on this item stated that it was the old soup. The soup I received is the new stuff. Being a food item, returns are not allowed. I feel this was false advertizing and am extremely displeased."
,,,,,The Best in Soup,You will not find better tasting soup anywhere.  I initially purchased it because my wife is sensitive to MSG and other kinds of additives that are found in most soups.  After eating some myself I now keep a supply on hand for all of the family.
,,,,,The best!!,"This soup is absolutely delicious!  The chicken tastes like real chicken - not processed ""fake"" meat.  And, the wild rice adds just a bit of yummy crunch.  For some reason I think it's way better than the chicken noodle one.  If you eat strictly organic, it's perfect for when you don't have time to make a fresh meal."
,,,,,Bland and disappointing..,"I was familiar with a few of Wolfgang's recipes before I tried any of his soups. First I tried a different flavor a year ago, but can't remember anything except it being bland and slimy.  I decided to try it a 30 minutes ago because I was desperate for something healthy and convenient because I was a tad sick and could not make my own unprocessed meal with the ingredients I had home. I bought it for about $3 and hoped I just had a bad can of soup the first time, but this was just awful. No taste, slimy, and hardly any chicken (probably 3-4 tiny pieces). I can see why they added such little chicken. It's just tasteless and dry; tasted nothing like chicken. I'll go try another can of soup that can make me feel a bit better. This sure didn't do it. I have never had soup that tasted bland even after adding salt and seasoning. I see positive reviews that make me thing I had another bad can because I still can't believe it had absolutely no flavor."
,,,,,Disappointed,This soup has no flavor. Broth had a slimy consistency instead of a liquid-y one. I was so disappointed.
,,,,,Yummy!,"I normally HATE canned soup but this one is an exception!  Great flavor and the chicken, carrots and rice actually seem 'real' - not imitation or over-processed like all the other canned soups I've tried."
,,,,,Very Yummy Chicken and Rice!,"Delicious, organic, full of flavor and a hit at our house! Plump rice, fat carrots, tasty chicken - a great soup!"
,,,,,OK for storm food,"As we all know.....any canned soup, organic or not, should be avoided or at least limited.  It does work for storm supplies due to its easy medium term storage and it being infrequently or never used.  It will end up in a hunting camp for a few days of quick meals toward the end of its shelf life.  Everything tastes better in fresh air and this stuff isn't bad.  Again, its use is very limited.<br /><br />Don't like the BPA issue either.  I did speak to Wolfgang Puck about PBA and their plans.  Like most, they are treading water to see what the government (friends of the fda) does or does not do about it.  What's a little more poison added to the current mix in processed foods.<br /><br />Ever notice that most of the Wolfgang Puck soup ingredients here on Amazon end at ""Contains 2% or less of the Following""........?<br /><br />As I indicated above, we did try this soup, and it tasted ok, nothing special.  Try adding a little more sea salt. It is better than the MSG enhanced, preservative laden Campbell's brand crap, a brand we would not buy regardless of circumstance.  One never knows who actually made this soup.<br /><br />We consider the organic versions the lesser of (insert remaining cliche), and have a case......in case."
,,,,,Awesome Wild Rice,I love rice and this was good with all kinds of textures! I am allergic to so many things but this soup was awesome and no hives! Win WIN!
,,,,,"Product is fine, but the price is more than at the grocery store!",I can get this at my local grocery store for $2.69 per can ($32.28 for 12).
,,,,,Really great taste! Price should be less though.,"This soup is incredibly good!  But honestly, I was looking for a better deal through Amazon. The free shipping is great, but it's over 3 bucks a can, and I can get it cheaper through my grocery store. They are always having WP sales for 2 bucks a can, 2.50 a can... so does anyone know about a better deal than this? It's a really good tasting soup!"
,,,,,YUMMY,It's my favorite soup.  And you can't beat the amazon price with free shipping.  Thanks for making my favorites available.
,,,,,Love Wolfgang Puck soups,"I love having a soup that is healthy and not full of bad ingredients.  I like the chicken noodle better, but the rice is pretty good too."
,,,,,Wolfgang  Puck Organic Chicken with White & Wild Rice Soup,This soup is simply the best.  Been ordering for a very long time and will continue to do so.<br />Great soup and product.
,,,,,Ick,"This soup is just offensive.  Why does it taste like cinnamon?  Also, it's twice the price of Campbell's and 1/4 the chicken.  Sure, it says it's organic.  I totally believe that, don't you?"
,,,,,More chicken please!,"The soup itself was excellent -- a nice, well-tasting mix of meat, veggies and wild and white rices, but surely a few more chunks of chicken could have been added. I bought it at local grocer -- two cans for $4."
,,,,,Tasty (but greasy) chicken soup,"Very tasty but my only complaint is that it's very oily.  If you let it sit and cool, it develops a fatty ""skin,"" and my plastic spoon gets a film on it while I'm eating.  I gave it 5 stars anyway b/c it's still the best canned chicken and rice soup I've ever tasted.. but outside of canned soup, homemade is always better."
,,,,,"""The worst thing I've ever tasted""","In court, as I understand it, you're not supposed to testify about anything where you don't have direct experience.  You can discount this review if you want, since I have only second hand experience with this soup.<br /><br />I gave a case of this soup to a young friend who is a college student (I worry about her starving).  She never mentioned whether she liked the soup, so I asked.  She finally admitted that it was, to quote her, ""The worst thing I've ever tasted"".  Apparently her boyfriend also tried it and thought it was bad as well.  While my friend is rather picky, her boyfriend has a much wider culinary range, so if they both disliked the soup, I'm inclinded to think it's not very good."
,,,,,wrapped securely and fresh!,Very good WHITE CHOCOLATE and Very Fresh too! Ty! Thank you for wrapping securely. Quick shipment was appreciated very much!
,,,,,Shop around.,"I found this exact same product, same size at our local grocery store (QFC and Safeway) for $2.99. So, am not sure why this product is priced so much higher."
,,,,,rip off,"$5.00 over the local grocer's regular price. I expected a fair market price when I placed this order, but because I didn't research it I was extremely disappointed to find it so inflated. Live and learn, I hope I can save someone else the trouble of having to make a return."
,,,,,Kinetic Kraziness!,"This coffee (er, koffee) is superb!  I am lucky enough to live where this is roasted.  I can get my Kinetic fix at the local grocery stores.  You can taste the care put into this flavorful espresso.  Living in a small town, I happen to know the roasters.  You would be hard pressed to find better people.  They are active participants of the ""Great Arcata to Ferndale World Championship Cross-Country Kinetic Sculpture"" race.  If you haven't heard of it, look it up.  We are a strange people, here in Arcata."
,,,,,Premium Dog Food,"First quality, dogs like it and it does not have grain as an ingredient, therefore a reduction in ear infections due to yeast infections."
,,,,,"Natural, Grain Free and my Dogs love it","My dogs love this food and with the limited ingredients and low allergins, it makes it great for them as well."
,,,,,Top 10 Super Food,"Wow, organic lentils, how great is that! Lentils are one of the planet's top 10 super foods, extremely high in protein and fiber, extremely low on the glycemic index and inflammation scale. This is one food I try to eat everyday. I live in a pretty unsophisticated town in the central valley of California, and you'd think our ""high-end"" supermarket, Raley's, would carry organic lentils, but of course, they don't, and even if they did, I'd have to pay an arm and leg for them. Amazon is my lifeline for quality organic foods and other products. Incidentally, I don't make the typical lentil soup with these. I simply cook one bag (16 oz.) with about 7.5 cups of non-fluoridated bottled water (fluoride is extremely bad for your thyroid), salt them to taste, and only cook them for 25 minutes. This way, they don't get mushy. They keep their firmness without being too chewy, more like a bean, and then I keep them in the fridge for a week, and have them with a little organic shredded cheese on top. YUMMY!"
,,,,,great,"These are such high quality beans, no stones, great taste, cook, and freeze and thaw perfectly! I will order again and again!"
,,,,,Hershey's kisses,That all that need to be said. The best chocolate candy with the best service. And add a great price and it just can not be beat. The item arrived on time and in good shape like most items ordered through amazon.
,,,,,YUMMY!,"What I like about these is that they are gluten free, full of flavor and have a hearty corn flavor. They are a bit thicker than some of the chips I've tried out there and hold the salsa!  Love these!"
,,,,,Perfect chip for salsa and guacamole!!,"These chips ROCK!  We have tried just about every kind of chip lately looking for something that is lower priced, more natural but still taste good.  These chips taste great - perfectly salted (not too salty and can be enjoyed plain), excellent crunch and corn flavor and best of all - the shape!  The long rectangular shape are the perfect size for dipping and are just thick enough to hold any dip or salsa.  Best part - they are made with only 4 natural ingredients!"
,,,,,"LOVE, Love, Love!",I love the crunch & taste of the corn strips. My whole family loves them too!
,,,,,Excellent chips,"My husband and I love these chips - they aren't very salty and the strip shape makes them great for dipping in salsa/dips.  Two of my favorite things about these chips though: 1) when you open the bag, the bag still looks pretty full unlike many other brands where the bag look half full at best when you open it 2) there aren't ever very many broken chips."
,,,,,Best Chips Ever,"These chips are my family's favorite.  They are absolutely fabulous with guacamole because they are not too salty.  They pick up salsa well too, especially fresh salsa because of their shape.  You get just the right amount of salsa.  These chips don't take over the dip, they compliment whatever you dip them in.  They're fine without dip also, but if you are used to a salty chip, you might find them a bit plain. Tortilla chips are a staple at our house and these are the best you can get except in an authentic Mexican restaurant.<br /><br />Hope you enjoy them as much as we do."
,,,,,Great Shape for Dipping!,"If you're looking for a healthy, natural tortilla chip for dipping, you should try these.  I bought these for the holidays and we enjoyed dipping them in a corn, black bean and red pepper salsa.  The shape is perfect for dipping.<br />They're all natural, low-calorie chips that taste great.  You can eat 12 chips for 130 calories--the chips are big and can be broken in half for more dipping.  One serving of 12 chips is only 10% of your allowed fat and there's no trans-fat and little saturated fat.  Can't wait to try them with guacamole--great treat for parties."
,,,,,Favorite cheese made in the USA,"This is a mild, buttery scented cheese. My favorite cheese made in the United States."
,,,,,Convenient and good,I bought these for my grandson who is 7 months old. He loves them and they are just the right size for a snack between feedings. His mom likes the convenience and ease in taking them along. I like ordering these and having them shipped directly to their house. It makes me feel like I have sent them a little present that is practical and appreciated.
,,,,,Love it!,"My son is 7 months old and this has always been his favorite baby food - it is nice a thick, which he loves!"
,,,,,"My Husband is Italian, but I cheat on him with Greek Olive Oil","I am a bit of a foodie and have become quite picky over the years.  I have to say, hands down, this is my favorite olive oil.  It's affordable and non-pretentious.  Amazing flavor.  I use a lot of olive oil in cooking and this is great for that and just by itself to drag a piece of crusty bread through or to drizzle over caprese.  I definitely recommend this to anyone looking and unsure of what to buy.. because who knows?  But this one is a keeper and a must try!"
,,,,,Good for cooking,"Purchased two liters... looking for an oil to put in salads, on bread, etc... something with a strong flavor of olive oil... this is NOT it.  This is good for cooking... has little flavor."
,,,,,Waste of money,I purchased this food coloring hoping it would create black frosting. I read several reviews on this and other websites which suggested I use chocolate icing (as white icing + black food coloring= gray frosting) but this product did not darken the chocolate at ALL. I ended up using over half for one cake and still decided the color wasn't right. It was still obviously brown. Perhaps my expectations were too high.
,,,,,Quality Olive Oil at it's best,"A brother in a Sicilian family who owns an Italian Food Market & Deli here in San Diego, tipped me off to this product over a year ago.  The difference it made in salads and vegetables, sauces and meats was unbelievable.  There is a pleasingly clean, peppery bite that makes it distinctive, adding a bold delicious flavor to fresh salads, cooked vegetables and roasted chicken and meats.  I've tried many other brands of extra virgin, pure, select or other types of olive oils growing up in an Italian household and in my 66 years, none of them stimulated the taste buds with the savory satisfaction delivered by Academia Barilla Extra Virgin Olive Oil.  The product is not widely known but the laboratories at Academia Barilla in Italy have developed as good a commercial product as is currently on the market and in my opinion, it is the very best.  The cost is high but consistent with the higher end oils.  But, if you enjoy fine foods and preparing aromatic dishes, simply put,  this oil turns them into a gift.  Use it and enjoy the satisfying reaction and comments of dinner guests as they realize they are being treated to a very special dinning experience.  Quality makes a difference."
,,,,,Best Rawhides Available Anywhere!,"Sure, this rawhide is expensive at 5-6 dollars per rawhide.  However, it is excellent quality (many rolls very tightly rolled) and takes my GSD hours to go through one.  For reference, he can eat a thick bully stick in 5 minutes and a Himalayan Dog Chew in 30 minutes.  For the time spent chewing per dollar, these rawhides are a deal!  I also love that my dogs can't get big chunks off, so even though I keep an eye on them I have very little fear of choking."
,,,,,great for one year olds,I mix 2 scoops of this and two scoops of formula in my son's bottle and it keeps him full longer. My mother says she used it on me when I was a child and it kept my cheeks rosy and me full. My son seems to really enjoy it.
,,,,,I love it and I am 28!,"Well it's funny but Even though I am 28 Yrs old I love eating this in many flavors, I was born here and did not get the chance to grow up on this till almost three where my family went overseas and they used this nestle brand and I am hooked till now, It's really hard to get it here as I live in NH so I order it online<br />I really like it, and would recommend it and will defiantly feed it to my kids when I get some "
,,,,,Love it,This the best flavor out of all the others my daugther loves it and it is easy to make and very nutritional too.
,,,,,baby food Nestle`,"sweet tasty but there is not sugar ,baby love it.Better than gerber.Like  Mellin ,Milupa or Plasmon brand."
,,,,,Great Product,"This is a great product. My son loves it. Still, I like better the ""8 cereal with honey"" that somehow is not available in the US but you can find it in Europe."
,,,,,Great deal,"I switched to sea salt a couple of years ago and have found these McCormick grinders very handy ways of dispensing. My attraction was the price. This deal is better than any I have found in local grocery stores... even with shipping/handling. Well worth the price. Shipment was fast, no breaking or damage. This is one of those 'more bang for your buck' deals.... worth it!"
,,,,,"""Elegant & English"" Honey & Almond All-Butter Biscuits","These English tea biscuits are baked by hand in Ashbourne, Derbyshire by Artisan Biscuits. The cookies are essentially flavored shortbread with a very distinct taste of butter, honey, and almonds and an excellent texture at once crumbly and crispy with a nice buttery mouthfeel.<br /><br />I was fortunate enough to run across them at Jack's $0.99 Store (2 packages for $0.99!) in three flavors:  Honey & Almond, Ginger & Lemon, and Rosehip & Blackcurrant.  They were quite the hit and immediately became the subject of conversation.<br /><br />The Honey & Almond was universally loved.  A few people thought that the ginger was a bit too strong or else didn't like the floral taste of the rosehips but those were just personal preferences of people generally not fond of those flavors.  In each instance, I thought the flavor combinations  were both well chosen and perfectly balanced.<br /><br />Overall, you couldn't ask for better quality in a packaged cookie.  I only regret that the Chocolate & Raspberry, Coconut & Lime, and Vanilla & Cream varieties weren't available to try as well.  Very highly recommended.<br /><br />Ingredients:<br /><br />Wheat flour<br />Butter 25.7%<br />Sugar<br />Honey 6.2%<br />Nibbed almonds 1.1%<br />Natural almond flavoring<br />Emulsifier (Soya lecithin)<br />Raising agent (Sodium bicarbonate)<br /><br />Each 150g/5.3 oz package contains 18 cookies or 6 servings of 3 cookies<br /><br />Nutrition per serving of 3 cookies:<br /><br />Calories 130<br />Calories from fat 50<br />Total fat 6g<br />Saturated fat 4g<br />Trans fat 0.2g<br />Cholesterol 15mg<br />Sodium 45mg<br />Total carbohydrates 18g<br />Dietary fiber less than 1g<br />Sugars 6g<br />Protein 1g"
,,,,,My greyhounds love it!,"My Greyhounds 7 and 8 years old( both Brood Matrons) loved this lip smacking food. It has given them more energy and their coats are looking wonderful. In fact when you open the bag the food smells like fruit and veg. Changing to Annamaet grainless Salcha,which is small kibbles, from the old food does take a gradual process for the older dogs not because of its size, but because of its high quality. Lastly the company has never had a recall on its products, something we all look for today."
,,,,,Fresh as it gets!,We lived in Charleston for years and always loved the availability of fresh seafood - especially oysters!  Now we live about 24 hours away and I do miss being able to swing by the seafood market when I'm in the mood.  I had no idea that I could have it delivered to my doorstep within a couple of days!  It was well packed and smelled as fresh as if we bought it off the boat.  Impress your friends and throw together an oyster pasta dish.  SO much better than the stuff in the small plastic containers at the grocery store!  These were HUGE.
,,,,,Very nice.,"Perfect starter tree. It is adorable and the included manual tells you the basics of bonsai. I bought this for my mother-in-law for Mother's Day, a live tree instead of cut flowers makes a great gift."
,,,,,Amazing!,"I bought this for my boyfriend as a Valentines Day gift and he absolutely loved it! Its an amazing size and includes all the essentials for a starter kit. It arrived extremely quickly even though i chose standard shipping. It arrived in a medium sized box and alot of packing peanuts which kept the tree stable and safe throughout shipping. Overall, i will definitely chose to order from joebonsai again because i was satisfied and absolutely love it!"
,,,,,"had a bit of a mix up, but service was superb","I received my tree quite quickly despite the holidays. when I got the tree, it was packaged very well and i don't think anything short of getting run over by a freight train could have broken the tree. I called after I got the tree and the exchange i had with the person on the other end was very helpful, and I could not be more pleased with their service. these guys show great care and dedication to the customers.<br /><br />All in all, a fantastic buy."
,,,,,"Nice tree, but where's the rest?","The tree is nice, but that is the only part besides the pot.  Did NOT come with a matching drip tray, as promised.  Instructions were lacking information and were merely a printed piece of paper."
,,,,,Tasty,"As far as noodles in a cup goes this is one of the best I've had. Actual recognizable small chunks of dehydrated veggies, mostly mushrooms and onions that I could make out. Descent noodle quality and a very hot and spicy seasoning mix. They don't show it on the picture here but I'm pretty sure this is the hot and spicy cup. It looks exactly like the one I just had but the words 'hot and spicy' are just to the left of the symbol and are not visible in the pic. If you like spicy noodles definitely don't pass this up.<br /><br />Very good"
,,,,,The Best Noodles For Vegetarians?,"I used to eat Nong Shim Shin Noodle Ramyun for years and that remains my favorite, however it has beef stock in it and I can't eat it anymore.  I checked out the whole Nong Shim line at my grocer for a vegetarian noodle and this cup is all I could find.  It tastes virtually identical to the bowl but is vegetarian.  Its spicy, and the noodle is of a better quality than the 20 cent Maruchan packages I grew up on.  You cant go wrong with Nong Shim but I thought that vegetarians should know about this soup.<br /><br />So I just read on the description that it contains beef but the cup that is in my hands right now does not say that.  I may post a picture as proof."
,,,,,Best instant noodle cup,I really enjoy this noodle cup mostly because of the texture of the noodles and the flavor of the soup. The noodles taste firmer and less like the cheap kind that would regularly come out of one of these instant noodle packages. The flavoring has just the right amount of spice and is not excessively spicy.
,,,,,The real deal (ALMOST),"I pass around favorable endorsements very seldom but this is one of those occasions.<br /><br />I'm almost 69 and this bacon would be as almost identical to the bacon I ate if it were a bit saltier and had the rind left on.<br /><br />If you want the old time southern bacon without all the salt and the rind, this is it.<br /><br />I'll admit I do salt the bacon just a tad before I fry it.<br /><br />This is good stuff if you appreciate great bacon."
,,,,,Country Bacon,"The product was fair, not as ""country"" as I would like, but better than you find in a grocery store."
,,,,,I love this Ghirardelli Mint Dark Chocolate. Perfect for after dinner or as a dessert,"This Ghirardelli Mint Dark Chocolate tastes really good. The chocolate isn't too sweet nor too bitter. It is also not too creamy or milky. As far as the mint filling, it adds some more sweetness to the Chocolate, but at the same time the mint is very refreshing. Perfect to have after dinner or as a dessert.<br /><br />If you like Mint Chocolate, you might also want to try the After Eight Mint Chocolate. they are very good too. Also try the Ghirardelli Peppermint Bark Chocolate which is kind of interesting taste (a combination of chocolate/dark chocolate with white chocolate and peppermint crust).<br /><br />Sidarta Tanu"
,,,,,Too Sweet,"I bought this because I was craving dark chocolate, and thought mint sounded great at the time. The chocolate is way too sweet. Dark chocolate is supposed to be a little bitter, not too much, but enough to give it some bite. I guess Ghirardelli decided to cancel that out by adding more sugar. Add to it the super sweet mint filling, and I could barely finish a square it was so sweet. Considering the expense, I expected a much better quality."
,,,,,Chocolate Mint,Both my friend and I love this product. The dark chocolate and the mint really supplement each other. A little expensive but excellent quality.
,,,,,Chocolate heaven,"My mother and father were the recipient of these wonderful pieces of chocolate heaven.  They didn't believe they deserved receiving these, but I know they did deserve to receive these!"
,,,,,Best non-whey non-soy alternative,"Edit: Upgraded to 5-star.  They appear to have changed the recipe, as the last couple containers I have acquired have tasted substantially better! It almost tastes like Swiss Miss cocoa (and while Swiss Miss is not really my idea of great cocoa, for a protein drink mixed with water, that is pretty good!)<br /><br />Summary: This is the best non-whey, non-soy protein I have found, and I would highly recommend it to anyone with soy+whey/dairy sensitivities! I rated this 4 stars, but if you can't have whey, it is definitely a 5-star product.<br /><br />I'm allergic to both whey and soy, which has made finding a good protein supplement quite a pain! I have tried pretty much everything on the market, including a variety of wheat, buckwheat, and brown rice proteins.  If you are looking for the highest quality protein available, you are unfortunately limited to egg, soy, whey, or casein (based upon PDCAAS, the FDA and FAO/WHO's method of determining protein quality), so egg is really preferable to the alternatives.  Fortunately, this is, in terms of consistency, digestibility, and nutritive content (0 fat 0 carbs), and overall flavor, the best of the various proteins I tried.  In case you are wondering, there is no cholesterol in this protein, either.  Texture and overall 'drinkability' are great... I drink it mixed with water with no issues.  Flavor is decent: obviously, none of us are drinking protein powder expecting a gourmet flavor extravaganza.  This protein is decently tasty if you like chocolate (not as good as most whey/casein proteins, but better than almost all non-whey proteins... I tried quite a few of those as well before discovering that I could not tolerate dairy proteins).  Be warned: the vanilla version of this product tastes terrible.  In my opinion, it is barely drinkable.<br /><br />Four stars overall.  If I had no food sensitivities, I might still use this in conjunction with whey protein, but would probably not use it exclusively.<br />Five stars if you can't have whey protein!<br /><br />I hope that this review is helpful!"
,,,,,Egg Protein Review,"I found this to be a good alternative to whey based protein powder. I have only used this product for 30 days and am reordering. Before I get into my review, I might mention that I never thought of myself as whey or lactose intolerant, but after 3 months of taking quality whey protein I knew that what I was experiencing was not typical. (I'm talking about bathroom habits including frequency and consistency). I asked a few older guys in the gym what there experience was with whey, most if not all where fine with it and experienced no problems or side effects. One natural BB that is about my age late 30's suggested this egg based protein product and noted that one of his training customers found it to be an acceptable alternative to the milk based protein products.<br /><br />I did some research and to be honest the manufactures web site for beHealthyNFit is totally useless and outdated with little or no useful information. Their poor web site almost made me not buy this product. It sure didn't invoke any consumer confidence and in my opinion is totally unacceptable.<br /><br />How does it taste? I bought the chocolate (I'm not a chocolate lover but I think chocolate flavoring is the best option for protein powders) The flavor is chocolate but its defiantly not a rich milk chocolate and it wouldn't fall in the same category as a dessert. More of a taste that you can get used to.  I have also seen this flavor described as chocolate with a hint metallic. I'd agree with that. It has an after taste that some may find metallic.<br /><br />How does it mix? I mix this with water directly in a 16oz. ready to drink water bottle. I drink 1 or 2 ounces, usually down to the top of the label. Then I place a funnel in the top and dump in one scoop. Usually I will need to shake or tap the funnel to get the powder to pass through. Then I screw the top on and shake well. I have found that if the water is very cold the powder will clump more often and mix poorly. Room temperature water or water that is cool but not ice-cold works best. I use a wine fridge to keep the water at 50.( I don't like clumps) Note: The consistency is exactly like water, if your expecting this to be a thick or heavy drink then will be disappointed.<br /><br />I found that if you live in a humid state like Florida you will need to make sure that you screw the lid to the protein power on tight. If you expose this power to high humidity you will have a terrible time with it clumping and mixing properly.<br /><br />General tips for drinking protein drinks. I have found that eating a granola bar while drinking a protein drink helps. First biting the granola bar then taking a drink. I found this to work for me and it makes the occasional protein clump less noticeable.<br /><br />Is there room for improvement? Yes, loads of room for improvement. Is there anything better? I haven't found it yet but I am still looking. I will give this high marks until I find something better. Please leave a comment if you find a better non whey protein product."
,,,,,Great product,Good taste...mixes easy and has no artifical sweetners.  I been using this one for years
,,,,,best to digest,"If you are concerned about digesting dairy and soy products you can rest assured that this is the protein for you. It's a nice vanilla flavor with no chalkiness and no artificial sweeteners. I love it and I know my body loves it. NO digestion problems, ever. Rock on."
,,,,,Superb when you can't take whey or even when you can,"This product has 24g of protein per serving and is ideal for getting lean because it has only about 110 calories and practically no fat. The taste is fairly forgettable but not regrettable. If you need a pure bulk, as fast as you can, I recommend cyto-gainer but we all know whey is tough on the stomach of many people, including myself.<br /><br />There's been a lot of controversy regarding the high protein for muscle gain/weight loss and the jury seems to still be out. However, what I can say for sure (because Doctors and nutritionists have told me) is that more than 1g of protein per body weight is going to cause health issues over the long term. Also, the ideal ratio for carbos/fat/protein varies by body type and desired goal, the best way to learn is through trial and error. Personally, a diet relatively high in fat and protein works well for me, but that's only ideal for the short term.<br /><br />I definitely recommend this product for either people who can't take whey or for those wanting to get lean. Pure egg is a purely brilliant idea..."
,,,,,a tip for improving consistency,"I have been using this protein powder for about a month. The first thing I noticed is that this brand mixes better than Optimum Nutrition egg protein, but still not like whey or even rice protein. The texture is not great by itself in my opinion- not awful but not great. I have been mixing Garden of Eating Super Seed with the powder before adding water and it mixes to a much better texture. I've also tried blending the two with ice to make a smoothy which turned out ok. For those of us who can't tolerate the whey or soy proteins, this particular brand is the best I've found."
,,,,,This is a great alternative to whey,"I've been a fan of HnF's egg protein for a while now as whey bloats me and gives me indigestion (that being said, the ONLY whey I've found that doesn't bother my stomach at all is <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004BOTGTM"">Optimum Nutrition 100% Platinum Hydro Whey Turbo Chocolate 1.75 Protein</a>).<br /><br />The chocolate tastes pretty good with water (although I don't really care about taste), and is actually pretty darn good with rice milk. It also tastes good in smoothies (I use frozen bananas and rice milk).<br /><br />Only downside is you may get gas initially and you're going to smell things that no human should smell. This passes pretty quickly (huhuh) though.<br /><br />Oh and don't buy the vanilla flavored powder because it tastes like soap. I use it in smoothies and it lends a little vanilla flavor but it's still not very good."
,,,,,tasty...but too sweet,"compared to other egg proteins I have recently used, this one is very sweet.  It is sweetened with splenda, so still very low in actual sugar/carbs.  I prefer to use an unsweetened version and put fruit in the blender with it to naturally sweeten it, but my wife likes this one b/c its easy to instantize in milk (we use almond milk) with a spoon.  No blender required."
,,,,,Great value for egg protein,"In general, egg protein doesn't have the best taste.  Since it has a mild flavor, mixing with other ingredients (e.g. bananas) work well."
,,,,,"Low calorie, high protein, great taste","I really like this protein drink. I'm pregnant and trying to increase protein in my diet without adding a whole lot of extra calories or fat. This is the perfect solution. I usually mix it with a combination of 1/2 plain almond milk and half water. I also usually add a little more liquid than it says in the directions, otherwise I find it too sweet. The nice thing is that it is sweetened with stevia instead of a calorie-filled sugar of some sort. I prefer egg protein to other proteins because soy is often GMO and not recommended in high doses in pregnancy (or for anyone actually), and whey protein is a dairy product, which I generally don't tolerate well. Egg protein is perfect for my needs."
,,,,,It's good once you doctor it up a little bit!,"I use this as a whey/soy protein alternative. I am allergic to soy and have sensitivity to whey and this product seems to be free of both. I actually haven't used it as a shake, but I use it to make protein pancakes. I find I have to add extra cocoa powder to make it more chocolatey and stevia to make it more sweet. At first I came out with some really awful pancakes, but after I found the perfect ingredients to doctor it up, they all come out amazing!!! So if your looking for an alternative to whey and soy, I definitely think this is a good choice!"
,,,,,What's in this stuff?,"What's in this stuff?  Where's the list of ingredients?<br /><br />I don't eat anything unless I know and approve of what's in it.<br /><br />For example, although this product's description says it contains no sugar, it does not say if it contains any artificial sweeteners, which are also bad for you.<br /><br />For one thing, aside from tasting awful, artificial sweeteners often cause horrendous intestinal cramps and diarrhea.<br /><br />In addition to having long ago given up the eating of sugar and sugar in all its guises (e.g: ""natural"" cane juice, fruit juices, ""raw"" sugar, ""organic"" sugar, etc.), I also stopped ingesting artificial sweeteners of any kind.<br /><br />So, what's in this stuff?"
,,,,,The Best Protein Out There,"In my opinion, this is the best protein powder out there.<br />I've used a lot of different protein products, from Dymatize to Optimum Nutrition (Gold Standard) and CellTech (MuscleTech), BSN, many others as well.  The reason that I tried this one is because I've been doing a lot of research, talking with my doctor and nutritionists regarding the subject of protein and protein suppliments in general.  The conclusion that I have come to is that the whey products are ok, but they are not the magic dust that everyone thinks it is.  Sure it is good, and the protein is not bad, but it can be better.<br />For those who have issues with dairy, whey is not an option.  Whey is a dairy product, and actually a bi-product of diary production.  Dairy is not the best choice of protein out there, many may disagree with this but it is a fact.  America has an infatuation with dairy and sweets.  If you look at any tables that show protein absorbtion effeciency in our bodies you will see this fact.  Eggs and Fish are rated at the top for best absorbtion and usage in the human body.  Eggs are around 88% effeciency, while fish is around 70% and chicken around 60%.  Whey and dairy are below all of these, this is precisely why whey is so cheap, and that is why it is so popular.  Sure the egg protein is going to be more expensive, but it is a better product.<br />As far as taste and texture, I find it just as good as the whey products that I have used, and even better then some.  I've tried some whey powders that were just aweful.  I have a 5lb tub of ""Metabolic"" whey that I tried, it is still sitting in the back room."
,,,,,"Very good nutritionally, but expensive and clumpy","The Healthy 'n Fit egg protein is a very good product. It's almost all protein, the taste is good, you can cook with it (my favorites are oatmeal and Russian-style cottage cheese pancakes). And the price *used* to be great, even cheaper per ounce than the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GIST86"">Optimum Nutrition 100% Egg Protein, Rich Chocolate, 2 Pound</a>. However, since I bought my first tub earlier this year, the price jumped significantly to more than the Optimum Nutrition chocolate-flavored egg protein, so I bought a 2-lb. tub of that. I found that while the ON protein has a little fat and more carbs in it, it was much easier to mix into liquids with fewer or no clumps, unlike the Healthy 'n Fit product. I also like the taste just fine. So I found that I enjoy my shakes with the ON more, and it's faster and easier to mix my oatmeal in the morning with the ON.<br /><br />Please don't get me wrong -- this is a great product. But I just don't think it warrants a higher price than the Optimum Nutrition protein.<br /><br />So, to recap, as compared to <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GIST86"">Optimum Nutrition 100% Egg Protein, Rich Chocolate, 2 Pound</a>:<br />Pros:<br />Lower in carbs<br />Lower in fat<br /><br />Cons:<br />More expensive<br />Clumpier/harder to mix"
,,,,,A Protein Powder to make you Gag.,"I have tried many different protein powders over the years, and while it is hard to write a review based on taste alone (since everyone's taste is different), I'm going to go ahead and say this is the most rancid tasting gunk I have ever had the displeasure of putting in my mouth.<br /><br />I mix my protein shakes with a hand blender, so I rarely have any mixing problems - and even this protein mixed well.  The fun really began when I tasted it.  It tastes sour and acrid at the same time, absolutely horrendous.  I could not finish the shake I had mixed up, and had to wash my mouth out with apple juice to get that sick taste out before I could actually eat or drink anything else.<br /><br />This is a terrible protein powder from the standpoint of taste, in my opinion.  Of all the types I have tried, which is many, this has taken seat as the new ""worst"" one.<br /><br />FYI, I had ordered this with another brand because I am testing egg protein powders due to casein sensitivity.  If anyone has an egg protein powder recommendation, PM me."
,,,,,Great Product,"I've tried a number of protein powders over the years.  Most problems I encountered ranged from poor taste, to not mixing well, to leaving me bloated.  The Healthy n Fit egg protein is only 100 calories and you get 24 grams of protein with no cholesterol, no fat, no carbs, minimal sodium (in the big scheme of things) and even some potassium.  Add to that the fact that it mixes really well and tastes good either on it's own or mixed with fruit.  I don't feel bloated with this at all like I did with other products like Muscle Milk light.  I usually throw a banana and some blueberries into a blender with one serving of the protein for breakfast and then I use it straight right after a good workout.  Again, it tastes great on it's own or mixed with fruit.  I strongly recommend this product."
,,,,,Best Natural Protein,"Having a lactose intolerance, I've tried multiple egg proteins as well as some Whey Isolate proteins as well. This is hands down the best tasting protein powder out there. Vanilla and Chocolate are both delicious (I would stay away from Strawberry, it has a strange artificial taste to it, this was the updated formula too so they still haven't worked it out). I prefer to mix with some Vanilla Coconut milk and it's actually something I look forward to drinking (as opposed to some that I had just choked down as quickly as I could). I have also mixed in a teaspoon of cinnamon with just water and the vanilla protein and it is good as well.<br /><br />Another plus is that it uses stevia instead of artificial sweeteners such as sucralose or aspartame.<br /><br />If you can't handle Whey/Casein protein then I would absolutely recommend this one (even if you can but want to try something else). Best bang for your buck compared to other egg proteins and the taste is actually good."
,,,,,"TASTE ACTUALLY GOOD LOL, IM SHCOKED","I like this product, and i agree with any post, who says it mixes well, i bought a sample case just to test the waters, and i dont feel bloated or anything after i drink it, i think i feel my body is responding to it very well, i am going to finish up the muscle milk protein because i bought it and i pay over 30 for it, lol, but when i finish up the other proteins i purchase, i am going to stick with egg white protein, since i dont like eating them, everyone taste buds is different, some may like it, some may dont, then depending on your body chemistry some responds well to egg whites, some dont, but as for me personally i like it so far, might try out the strawberry passion protein, but the vanilla kind taste very good, i would suggest this protein should be used for edurance athletes, or people who are into calistenics such as push ups and pull ups,"
,,,,,Eggcellent Product!,"This egg protein is great!<br />First off, it is sweetened with Stevia, a natural herb, and not some artificial sweetener like aspartame or sucralose.<br />Next, it is very easy on the stomach, even whey without lactose is a lot harder on my digestion system it seems.<br />It tastes good, mixes well, and is a good value.<br />I bought all 3 flavors and found I prefer the vanilla.<br />Goes really well with some almond milk and blueberries.<br />I'm glad I've found a pure protein source that is dairy and soy free."
,,,,,Its good!,"I loved vitalabs egg protein, but I think their out of business.  This healthy n fit will substitute just fine,"
,,,,,SEEMS TO CONTAIN SOY?,"I BOUGHT THIS PRODUCT TO TRY AS A REPLACEMENT FOR JAY ROBB EGG WHITE PROTEIN SHAKES, WHICH IS WHAT I PREFER BUT DOESN'T FIT MY BUDGET - TO EXPENSIVE FOR EVERY DAY USE.  I WAS LOOKING FOR AN ALTERNATIVE AND CAME ACROSS THIS.  SINCE ONE OF THE REVIEWS SAID THAT IT WAS SOY FREE I DECIDED TO TRY IT.  I DON'T HAVE ANY PROBLEM WITH THE TASTE WITH ALL OF MY HEALTH PROBLEMS OVER THE YEARS I HAVE LEARNED NOT TO EXPECT A LOT IN THAT DEPARTMENT.  IT JUST TASTE LIKE WATERED DOWN CHOCOLATE TO ME.  I DRINK IT WITH WATER OR SOMETIMES WITH RICE MILK BECAUSE I NEED THE EXTRA CALORIES ON DAYS THAT I CAN'T HANDLE SOLID FOODS.  HOWEVER,ON RECEIVING THE PRODUCT, IT DOES CONTAIN SOY. HOW MUCH I COULDN'T SAY AS IT WASN'T LISTED ON THE INGREDIGENT COLUMN.  I FOUND IT MENTIONED ON THE BACK OF THE LABEL STATING THAT IT CONTAINED SOY LETICHEN(THINK I SPELLED THAT RIGHT).  I HAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO FIND OUT HOW MUCH.  IF SOMEONE COULD SHED SOME LIGHT ON THAT I WOULD APPRECIATE THE INFO. ALSO,I NOTICED THAT IT HAS GONE UP ABOUT $10.00 SINCE I PLACED MY ORDER LAST MONTH,SO IT MAY NOT BE AN ISSUE ANYMORE, BECAUSE THAT PUTS IT ABOUT EVEN WITH WHAT I WAS PAYING FOR THE JAY ROBB EGG WHITE SHAKES."
,,,,,excellent product,"Excellent Product. Great taste and easy to sue in cereal, yougur etc..  That's it in a nutshell.  Very Timely delivery."
,,,,,Egg Protein,"Although it is very high in protein, I thought the vanilla ice cream flavor was very bland. I would not buy this again as it was not tasty enough."
,,,,,Horrible taste!!,"Well I have tried many protein shakes and the taste is never been a problem for me but this was just horrible. It's GOOD for YOU but I just couldn't do it. It might be a good protein shake but it's extremely salty, i tried to drink it with other liquids to help the taste but every time it tasted worse and worse =( too bad because I was looking forwards to see some results!!"
,,,,,Not the best,"So after comparing this to Jay Robb, I can say that this protein is not as good. The taste isn't as good, and it doesn't mix that easy. I don't think it is horrible, just not that good.<br /><br />One thing I like about the Jay Robb is that they use hormone free chicken eggs. I sent Healty N' Fit an email asking where they get their eggs from, but they didn't reply. It is a little cheaper, but I found the Jay Robb at Vitamin Shoppe for 20 per 12ozs, which isn't bad. I have to say that I don't like the dudes picture on the bottle, but that's my only complaint."
,,,,,not good,"The protein powder is ok, not to good as i expected. if you pour hot milk over it will will form substance like egg white, which is very bad in taste, not at all drinkable."
,,,,,Check out Grandpa Po's Products,"Fantastic product. Keeps fresh for months. Had a bag in my desk that I had opened but packet was resealed, product still fresh after several weeks. Product has a spicy but not hot flavor and is enjoyed by my whole family. I am diabetic and have a hard time finding low sodium, low calorie snacks. Grandpa Po's products are both low sodium, low calorie and also taste great. I would highly recommend."
,,,,,Slightly Spicy are Slightly Addicting,"Grandpa Po's Originals Slightly Spicy is a wonderful savory organic snack. Not too spicy at first and ends with a great finish. If I had to sum it up in one word it would be ""WOW!""I would recommend them for young and old alike."
,,,,,Everything I expected,"For years I have grown my own habaneros to dry, crush and use for cooking.  I have been unable to do so for the last two years because of a job relocation.  My supply from previous years had run out so I purchased this product to re-supply.<br /><br />I have been tremendously satisfied.  Great quality, great consistency, great heat, good color, good particulate size, good price.<br /><br />Without any reservation would recommend this purchase to anyone looking for a good habanero powder.<br /><br />Be warned though... It is not for the faint of heart."
,,,,,Beautiful Habanero Powder!,"Initially I was worried about loss of potency when thinking about a powdered pepper. This came out beautiful though! It is very finely ground, much like cayenne pepper is commonly found. The color is beautiful.<br /><br />I am VERY happy with this Habanero Powder! I am so glad Angelina's Gourmet was there to provide such a wonderful product, and ship it out so fast! If you want some habanero for spicing up your food, buy this! It is great!"
,,,,,full of flavor,hot full of lavor great for jerky sauces love it
,,,,,Sweet pain,"Been buying ground Habanero from American Spice for years, decided to try someone else with their price going up-up-up, and not satisfied with consistency of heat.  This stuff had the right flavor and more heat than anything beside fresh, it will make you sweat.  Better price and value than any Habanero experience in 20 years of buying the stuff, will buy from this vendor again."
,,,,,Better than expected,The product was better than expected and it arrived quickly. I am very pleased with this purchase.
,,,,,SERIOUS WARNINGS! (but I LOVE  the product!),"I love hot foods, and love this product,  but it is dangerous! I have dogs, and the air born powder travels in the air- fast and hard!  Their eyes were watering, from five feet across the room at my first serving.<br /><br />I hadn't even opened the container, I only unwrapped it out of the mailer-box, touched the OUTSIDE of the bottle and rubbed my eyes and WOW! H-O-T!  I thought about smelling it, and am glad I didn't. It would have burned the inside of my nose majorly.<br /><br />I decided to take out a small portion, and move it into an old spice jar with a sprinkle top to control the amount I am serving on my meals. The larger bottle, is to big to work with such a a hot product.  I needed more control on what I was eating.  If you decide to do this, make sure that you do it in a sink, then wash the sink out, and DO NOT breathe when you are doing the transfer, or better yet; use a mask.  I made a paper funnel, and when it was traveling from the larger bottle to the smaller bottle, it when into my nose, and I had a five minute sneeze attack.  (In fact, every time I use it I do.) I stored the larger bottle in a plastic bag, until I need to refill, and plan to wash the outside of the smaller bottle after each use, so no one else in the house gets hurt.<br /><br />HOUSEHOLDS WITH PETS AND TEENAGERS:  Please watch out for your sneaky animals, that try to swipe your food off your table, it could hurt them and send them to the vet.  And watch out for teenagers with a bad sense of humor, it could hurt someone badly if they decide to play a joke on someone with this pepper.  Seriously.<br /><br />Also, I guess I really am bad a math... this size will last me a lifetime!  It is a very great tasting pepper, smoky flavored, if you can get past the hot part!"
,,,,,Great Buy,I have previously brought habanero powder from a gourmet store at The Grove in LA.  It was roughly 3 oz for $5.95.  This has the same great flavor and intensity that a habanero powder should have.  We use it to season fried fish and chicken and all braised meat dishes.  I highly recommend buying this product.
,,,,,Andrew Weil recommends a little hot spice to help stimulate blood flow,"Who knew that when I bought this 4 years ago that I was also getting something good for my health.  Saw a recent Dr. Oz show with Andrew Weil and he had a great Puttanesca recipe and one of the ingredients was dried red pepper.  By the way the recipe is just as good without the tuna.  I sprinkle a little of my Habanero powder as a substitute for the red pepper flakes.<br /><br />You don't need much of the powder it is very good quality, if you see it you probably used to much.  I put some of the powder on almost anything.  The best part?  I had no idea I was buying a life time supply, after 4 years I think I have barely used a tenth, my family makes a little fun of me about that but I don't mind, I love it, the powder and the humor.  Very highly recommended."
,,,,,"Great Quality, Absolutely Delicious, and Extermely Hot","I especially like like this on <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0052ONATM"">Lydia's Organics, Kale Krunchies, Mega Green, 3 oz (85 g)</a>.  I empty the kale into a container, sprinkle on habanero powder, put a lid on it, and then turn it over and over to mix the two.  Wow.  I've heard it's great with popcorn, too.  Whatever you do, just be careful how much powder you use.  I've been in a world of spicey hurt more than once :)"
,,,,,Kick a$$ habanero pepper powder,"This stuff is the bomb.<br />There is no pepper that has a tastier fruity flavor than the Habanero.  The fact that is fiery hot is both a bonus, (for us heat lovers) and a curse(for the wussies).<br />I use this stuff all the time.  Sprinkle it on a sandwich over the tomato, sprinkle it over some Mexican sour cream for a dip.  Sprinkle on pizza or a cucumber and tomato salad.  The uses are near endless.<br /><br />Also if you wanted to use it in lieu of mace or pepper spray, a little bit of this stuff blown onto any skin location rapidly induces excitement.<br />Be careful in the sprinkling of this stuff, if you get a smal puff of it into your nose, you will most definately know about it.  ;-P"
,,,,,Simply amazing...,"This stuff is gold for the hot/spicy food enthusiast.  I put it on most everything other than breakfast (Grape Nuts).  I really think you get way more value from this than any hot sauce in a bottle...  This is basically what is in that fancy bottle hot sauce, just without a fancy label.  Try it.  16oz goes a long way!"
,,,,,Terrific Decaf Tea,"My Mom was born in Manchester, England,and I have been drinking tea since I was very young. A few years ago I was forced to switch to decaf tea. Most of the blends available are terrible. I used to drink regular Yorkshire tea, and was thrilled to discover they had a decaf blend and it is a strong, full-bodied tea, and I love it! I decided to purchase from Amazon because I knew I could count on them, as  well  as their outside vendors. I was very pleased with the transaction and would purchase from them again."
,,,,,I love my tea,I just received my tea..  Thanks for getting it out so quick.. I really appreciate the extra box..  I drink this tea every night..<br /><br />Julianne
,,,,,Nescafe Mountain blend coffee availability,"I have used this product for over twenty years.  However, it is<br /><br />no longer available in any of the local food markets in the<br /><br />Los Angeles, CA area.  I'm happy that I can order it via<br /><br />Amazon.com"
,,,,,Delicious addictive treat,I ordered this candy for a friend as a mother's day gift.  She was delighted to receive it and I was excited to share it. :-)
,,,,,Pleasantly surprised!,"I was swayed to try this thanks to Amazon's new add-on program. Cod roe pasta is surprisingly good, especially with the toasted nori! I used 100 grams of angel hair pasta with one packet of the sauce. Next time, I may reduce the amount of pasta, or use two packets of sauce, to up the flavor. A dash of red pepper might be good, too."
,,,,,I do not think original one..,"I used this product cod roe (tarako spaghetti sauce )to eat when i feel lazy at japan.<br />that very cheap and just boil pasta and mix this pouch because<br />i ate that product once a week in japan.<br /><br /> after i moved here america year ago i really miss some asian food because little expensive but<br />when i see picture i remind how good and excited because i bought this from amazon .<br /><br />BUT taste little different , I was disappointed, too strong smell like a ocean .<br />I throw garbage because i did not remember product of japan america.<br /><br /> i never ever buy this in america."
,,,,,Will know more when I actually use it first.,"I am glad nail deco has become to be adult deco and not just for little girls.  I am not sure why it started out for adults and dove downward for little chicks and now back up to where it is alright for all sizes of females.  You can also use items from junkyards, wooden catalogs, and other places not usually on the same channel as beauty materials for jewelry and accessories."
,,,,,Great Tree,This is not as tall as they advertised. But we kept it and we like it alot. It is the shining star of our indoor Bonsai collection. Just stunning. Like having a forest in your kitchen! We've had it about 6 months now and it's thriving.
,,,,,Premium made in the USA treats for dogs & cats!,"One of the few chicken jerky type treats out there that's made in the USA (Connecticut) and isn't made in China.  Time and time again there are recalls for these types of treats that come from CHINA.  Do NOT buy treats made in China for your pets!  Sure, these are a tad more expensive, but in the long run it will save you money by not having vet bills and save the health of your pet!  I call it kitty and dog candy!  They come running from any room in the house when they hear the bag open.  They LOVE Bravo's real meat treats!"
,,,,,"Cat loves it, but...","My cat is a picky eater, but he got excited even before the bag was open (I guess he smelled the meat) and devours the treats. The only downside is the size. I understand this was a ""strip"", but I use them as regular bite-size treats and therefore had to break them into bits by hand (took me a while). I wish Amazon sold bite-size roast chicken treats by this company. I feel good about giving them to the cat, as it seems most cat treats are loaded with bad stuff."
,,,,,"Small, but good.  Poor packaging.","Packaging on these leaves something to be desired - last shipment I received had 2 out of 3 boxes with the corners crushed and when I opened the first one and removed the bag, there were a lot of broken biscotti.  I expect it will be the same for the other box that was damaged.  Given that these are fairly fragile, they should be given better protection from being crushed by the shippers.<br /><br />The biscotti themselves are tasty, if a bit small.  I wish they were full-sized, 3 or 4 inches long instead of an inch and a half.  But as I live in a rural area where people think ""biscotti"" is a kind of biscuit, these are a good second choice."
,,,,,A  Disappointment,"Pan Ducale Almond Biscotti were a  disappointment to me, not because they were bad, but because they could not come close to the great Lettieri Prato Belli Cantuccini Almond Cookies.  At best they are low in calories - also in almonds."
,,,,,dogs love it,They have other flavors but the dogs favorite is still the original. I wish they carried it in the local petstore we go to purchase their other flavors!
,,,,,A great discovery!,"We love this sauce and are hunting around to find it and to introduce it to others. Sort of a wasabi mayonnaise--and terrific on fish, potatoes, and many other things (we're eager to discover more)."
,,,,,Great pastry buy !!!!!,"Was quite pleased with the product. Arrived on time and wrapped well. Would buy again and again !!!!!  Try it, you'll let it !!!!!"
,,,,,Patty Shells,"The service was excellent, and the patty shells were delicious.  It's hard to find those things in grocery stores or bakeries, and being able to order them on line is a real help."
,,,,,Convenient and Tasty,"I bought these for my husband because he occassionally likes a cup of coffee at home and it is a hassle to drag out the coffee maker and grinder when he only wants one cup and it's not everyday.  It also comes in handy when guests come over, because we don't tend to keep coffee in the house.<br /><br />Each serving comes in a little pouch that you can easily slip into your pocket, briefcase or travel bag.  The flavor was rich and at around $1.00 a cup, much cheaper than going to Starbucks or anywhere else and grabbing a cup on the way to work.<br /><br />It dissolves completely leaving no grit or residue.  He first tried it in a 12 ounce mug and found it to be a little strong, but was perfect in his 20 ounce travel mug.<br /><br />[...]"
,,,,,The BEST,"I was absolutely amazed at how good this is.  In my opinion, it is as good as fresh ground coffee beans brewed up.  While I only use when I'm in a hurry, or want one cup, I would not be without it.  (And I have NEVER USED INSTANT before now."
,,,,,"A smooth, well-balanced cup of coffee","I've been a fan of Starbucks Via since it was first introduced.  As a pregnant (and now breastfeeding) woman, my caffeine intact is restricted to one cup of coffee a day.  I'm lazy and not willing to go to the trouble to make a pot of coffee for just one cup, so I switched to Via.  I don't think I'll ever go back.  I've tried all the Via varieties, including the Decaf Italian Roast and the various flavor blends (mocha, vanilla, etc.).  This Columbia variety is one of my favorites.  It's not as bold as the Italian or French Roast varieties, but it has a smoother and mellower taste and will appeal to those who like a well-balanced cup of coffee.  Good work, Starbucks, and keep the new varieties coming!"
,,,,,Take a sharp object to defend your self,"Unlike most people, I prefer not a weak coffee but a milder roast than the burnt stuff most coffee houses make that requires many accoutrements to mask like cream, sugar and artificial flavors. Therefore, I purposely only tried the Columbian.<br /><br />I work in a place that has poorly serviced coffee ""dispensing machines."" They are fun in that you never know what will come out in a day-to-day basis. Some time just your coins back. A few people have illicit electric coffee pots, others use a French press, and still others sneak out for the real thing.<br /><br />Now that I discovered the Columbian Via. I have to defend my cup from all those noses that circle my cup. I know there are directions on the pack; however, I now have my own ritual.  Clean cup, fill 2/3rds filtered water. 90 seconds in the microwave.  Shake contents to bottom of pack.  Rip the whole top off the pack with teeth.  Pour pack in coup and watch sizzle. Stir for a few seconds.  Add a tad of ice. Hope I can make it back to my desk before the cup empties.<br /><br />I was never a fan of reconstituted coffee however I think it is the addition of the micro-ground coffee that adds the edge necessary.<br /><br />In any event you owe it to yourself to try it."
,,,,,Great fast way to get good coffee,"I am a self proclaimed coffee guy. I enjoy chatting about coffee with the manager of my local Starbucks. I also have my own burr grinder, French press, espresso maker and 2 drip coffee makers (2 cup and 12 cup). So where does VIA fit into my coffee life? I typically use a VIA packet when I want a quick cup of coffee and don't want to take the time or effort to brew a pot (12 cup or 2 cup coffee makes).<br />Pros:<br />* Fast and convenient.<br />* Taste great for an instant coffee - it is not quite as good as fresh brewed but remarkably better than other instant coffee.<br />Cons:<br />* It is expensive. So watch the price on Amazon it will vary greatly over time. I tell my wife we are not ""Pay the full price people"". Put the item in your cart and then if u have time check your cart daily for a while. (I do this for all Amazon purchases since the price does really fluctuate for most items). For VIA I have found that watching it can save me 50% or more on Amazon - the price of this item locally never changes much.<br />* It is not the same as good brewed coffee. Don't expect this to be the same as fresh brewed coffee - all else constant (I.e. filtered water etc.)"
,,,,,Amazing instant coffee,"As far as instant coffees go, this one is amazingly good.  Usually, I have to use sugar with instant coffee, as they generally taste really bitter.  Not so with this one.  I can drink it straight and it tastes like real coffee.<br /><br />While this will never fully replace brewed Starbucks coffee for me, it is still pretty good and I will be keeping it my desk at work."
,,,,,the best instant coffee I've found,"This is not a coffee that I would drink on a regular basis. My morning coffee is freshly ground. However, at work I occasionally want a cup in the afternoon and the Folgers and Maxwell House that my coworkers brew is undrinkable. The price on this coffee is a bit high but the taste is better than any other instant coffee I've tried so I'll keep getting it until I find something better and cheaper."
,,,,,Best Instant Coffee on the Market,"While no instant coffee will ever taste as good as a freshly ground then brewed cup with filtered or spring water, this is as good as it gets otherwise.  While pricey, the packets are handy and convenient, the directions are easy (just add 8 oz of hot water and stir), and the taste is smooth.  I even got a bit of a caffeine buzz.  These instant blends are not as bold or strong as getting a regular cup of columbian or Italian roast at a Starbucks location, but still a very good cup on the go.  I really like this instant coffee and will continue to purchase them."
,,,,,Best instant coffee I ever tasted,I use it when traveling or when I'm in a hurry and don't have the time to grind my beans. I was surprised by how much it tastes like drip.
,,,,,VIA Columbian,I love this coffee.  It is easy to prepare one cup when you are wanting a great cup of coffee.  Highly recommend - I usually use one-half of the package since I don't like my coffee real strong.
,,,,,Good coffee,"I like this coffee.  It's much better than instant.  I keep some packs in my desk for those long afternoons and I also started carrying them when I go camping.  If I can go wthout another cup of instant coffee from a jar, I'll be happy."
,,,,,Not bad!,"You know, this stuff is really amazing. You can actually create a fresh brewed cup of Starbucks coffee in your own home for less than half the price of store-bought. The quality of the coffee is very high, and the taste is almost an exact replica of the real thing. They have really done a great job with this product.<br /><br />When I first saw it on the shelves, I thought, ""Starbucks instant for over a $1.00 a serving? Yeah, right!"" But I decided to try it anyway, and what do you know? It really tastes great. You really cannot tell much of a difference, (I suppose you could if you had them both side by side,) but the reality is this: once you load down your coffee with foam, cream, flavoring and whatnot, and you let it cool off a bit, the two are almost identical. Very, very little meaningful difference.<br /><br />So, I can make myself a tasty cup of Starbucks at my own home, with my own cup, anytime I want. It saves me from having to go down to Starbucks and spend almost $1 more. The quality and flavor are good, and the price is actually right.<br /><br />I recommend."
,,,,,The best instant coffee you'll ever find,"I am not a big fan of Starbucks coffee but I have to say this istant one tastes the same as their house coffee they brew. So, that puts it on the highest shelf within instant coffee family by far. It also has the<br />""kick"" of a regular brewed coffee due to the microgranuls of real coffee beans in it. Must have if you are on the go or have no coffee maker near you..."
,,,,,Best Instant I've ever tasted but nevertheless it is still instant. Check Best by date.,"Prepared as directed w/ 8oz of water it is very strong good tasting coffee, not better than fresh Colombian, but very good for emergencies and to have on hand.  For some this might be strong so 10oz of water is more the kind my friends like. A good Colombian coffee on the go but I like my fresh ground and brewed stuff better. I give them an A for effort, finally someone is getting close to that point where I can't tell it isn't fresh brewed but not quite there yet. I ordered it 2 days ago and got it fast, the best by date on mine is May 20th of this year 2011, rather quick to expire or this stock is old? Perhaps that is why it tastes instant?"
,,,,,This tastes great!,"This is a great stand-in when you can't make it out to Starbucks.  Love having an instant version at home.  Love, love, love it."
,,,,,Great (compared to other instant coffees),"I rarely drink instant coffee, but sometimes go to rural India on medical trips. Outside of Starbucks cafes and large western style hotels (in all cities, but not in rural India) it is nearly impossible to get brewed coffee in India. Ask for coffee, and you get instant, everywhere in India (except as noted). Anyway, to get a coffee fix on the go, I've tried the Starbucks Via Columbia packets, and (for instant coffee) they are wonderful, won't fool you into thinking you've got a good cup of brewed coffee, but better than common western office coffee, and much better than the instant served in rural India. The Starbucks packs cost 75 cents to $1 each, and I was hoping the Nescafe Clasico packs would be nearly as good, at 1/8 the price. Unfortunately, not. If you want something that reminds you of brewed coffee, bite the bullet and pay for the Starbucks."
,,,,,pricey but good,"I bought this as an experiment to try on a camping trip.<br />After adding hot water, there was a brief 'instant coffee' taste. But that was soon gone and I was left with a real good cup of coffee.  It's too expensive for my budget as a regular item, but I'll definitely include it on future camping trips, and driving trips with stays at cheap motels."
,,,,,Instant coffee without the instant taste,"If you want a good cup of coffee and are rushed for time or your household is like mine and you are the only coffee drinker, then you must give this a try. I admit the price is a little high but for that occasional cup it is well worth it. No bitter after taste like other instants"
,,,,,Delightful coffee,I tried the Starbucks Instant coffee.. Not only does it taste like coffee.. but there is no after taste like you get with other instant coffees. I give this 2 thumbs up!!!!
,,,,,Perfection as always!!,Starbucks has once again proven it is the world's best coffee company. Their new VIA instant coffee packets taste great and are portable which gets me through the day. I highly recommend this to anyone who loves Starbuck's coffee!!
,,,,,Quite a good cup of instant coffee,"Starbucks Via will not replace a well-crafted hand-brewed cup of coffee from your favorite coffee shop, but it's a hell of a lot better than what you probably expect instant coffee to taste like.<br /><br />If your experience with instant coffee stops at Taster's Choice or Folgers, be prepared to be wowed. Those products produce a result that tastes and looks like water with some coffee flavoring. Starbucks Via is much more like a ""real"" cup of coffee.<br /><br />Another advantage of Via is that the packets are soluble in cold or tepid water, so it's possible to mix yourself a glass of iced coffee right away, rather than having to brew and then cool coffee first.<br /><br />At about $1 per cup, it's certainly less expensive than fresh-brewed Starbucks coffee, though it's still more expensive than brewing coffee at home using a drip maker, french press or whatever other process you prefer. But for when you're on the run or on the road, it's quite a serviceable and enjoyable cup of coffee without too much muss and fuss. I bring Via packets with me when I travel, for example, and keep them on hand for when I'm not in the mood or don't have the time to brew a whole pot."
,,,,,Great quick cup of coffee,"I drink Starbucks drip coffee. The instant tastes just as good, and is great when you don't want to make a whole pot. Friends could not believe they were drinking instant coffee."
,,,,,Best instant coffee anywhere!,"Without reservation, this is the best instant coffee I have ever tasted. I have consumed coffee in many different countries during over 40 years of travel. Starbucks has created a masterpiece with this product. It is a bit expensive, but well worth the cost."
,,,,,"Slow Start, Warm Finish","After a slow start at our meeting of guests embracing these coffee packets, everyone ended up enjoying them."
,,,,,Real Coffee,"Really very good. Taste is great, no weird artificial taste, no little bitty grounds floating about. This is not crunchy brown water, but an actual cup of coffee. I make it in the microwave and it's great. Get the 10 pack for 9.95 and it's less than $1/cup."
,,,,,GREAT COFFEE,"Great coffee for the one cup drinker, or the traveler. Especially great for travel where you have to pack it in your suit cases. Wonderful for overseas where US style coffees are hard to be found. Taste is very good."
,,,,,"Best instant coffee, no doubt","It really is great instant. At very first sip, I thought I detected that ""instant"" aftertaste, but as I continued, I was more impressed. I drink coffee black, and am pretty particular about my java. I do think this is a great product to take on the road, to work, etc. Could do without the Starbucks priceyness, though."
,,,,,"Starbucks instant coffee, what a surprise!!! Great!!!",I am a very picky coffee drinker...I was so surprised at the flavor of the Italian roast...8oz to 10oz of water is all you need. I run the water through the one cup coffer maker. It's important to put the coffee in first and stir while hot water is coming through. I guess you could just micro the water and pour it over the coffee in another mug...great for home or travel..we all know hotel coffee is terrilbe.<br />LLHB  ENJOY!
,,,,,"In a pinch, Via is a portable and affordable cup of Joe","Behind the 12 packets of Via instant coffee, Starbucks placed a brief message, ""Never be without."" That's a better marketing strategy than, say, ""You could do worse."" Instant coffee is still instant coffee and no one who starts his or her day with a cup of Joe is about to trade fresh brew or French press for instant.<br /><br />In a pinch, Via is a portable and affordable option.<br /><br />However, I don't recommend Via as a strategy to save money on your coffee bill. A quality coffee press and a thermos will do much better. The 12-packet order currently sells for $8.95 on Amazon, without special offers or subscribe-and-save discounts. That works out to $0.75 per cup, which is about what you'd expect to pay in a standard vending machine. Hands down, Starbucks Via tastes better than anything pouring out of a vending machine. However, each Via stick produces an 8-ounce cup of coffee so, depending which size you normally order, you might spend $1.50 (for 16 ounces) or $2.25 (for 24 ounces).<br /><br />At $0.75 per 8-ounce cup, Starbucks' Via sticks are the same price as SoloBrew's <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002QTJ70M"">French Press To-Go SoloPress</a>, which I also reviewed on Amazon.com. I still recommend both brands as tasty and portable options over the ubiquitous, freeze-dried coffee sold in glass jars.<br /><br />Rating: Four stars."
,,,,,Expected better!,"I thought I'd be writing a review raving about this product.  Sadly, I'm not.<br />I would never use it for home use.  It tasted ""muddy"" and bitter. I followed the directions. I even made sure the water was hot but not boiling. I'd probably take it backbacking, but that's it. It's worth a try if you haven't tasted it yet. Read some of the other neutral reviews.  It might help with expectations."
,,,,,instant coffee,Coffee is good but I don't care for individual pacs. Would rather have coffee in bags like their other coffee is packed.
,,,,,"More,More,More","Sell me more! These things are the perfect breakfast. No, they are just perfect. Better price then the local grocery store and better selection."
,,,,,Good eatin',"Sometimes I just want something hot for breakfast, but don't want to cook anything. This oatmeal pack is great and has my favorite flavors.<br /><br />Recommend it with milk. With water is just too weak."
,,,,,Very tasty breakfast!,All of these flavors are great and make for a filling and delicious breakfast. I highly recommend purchasing this item!
,,,,,Yummers,This is definitely a great snack or morning breakfast<br /><br />I tried all the flavors and they were as expected....great<br /><br />if you want a good healthier snack or meal this is the way to go!!!
,,,,,Fanastic,"Can't find this product anywhere locally - thanks Amazon!  Much cheaper than 4 boxes of Quaker Oatmeal anywhere, and these flavors are the best :)"
,,,,,Oatmeal makes for winter warmth,"My kids have eaten oatmeal everyday since the weather turned cold. It puts warmth and filling breakfast into their tummies. These flavors were great, they loved them! I wish there had been more apple and less banana.<br /><br />The subscription meant we always had oatmeal, and it meant a lower price too! So convenient. Now that winter is ending, I just cancelled the subscription and done!"
,,,,,An oatmeal explosion of goodness,"Are you sick of the regular flavors? Plain, apples and cinnamon, brown sugar....<br /><br />Yeah me too. This really changes oatmeal up. At least for me it did. I have been eating oatmeal for some time and saw these flavors and figured how could I lose. These new flavors are fantastic and I can't recommend them enough. If you think their too strong you could always mix two packets like me and use a plain with one of these. I don't generally do that but I like to use up the plain packets I usually have left over from the other assortments I get."
,,,,,Quaker Instant Oatmeal Bakery Favorites,"This particular variety box contains 3 of my very favorite types of instant oatmeal:  Apple Crisp, Cinnamon Roll & Banana Bread."
,,,,,Sorry excuse for oatmeal,"This sounded so tasty from the reviews and the flavors were enticing...so I ordered some.  We had some for breakfast today and then went to pack the other boxes in bags to go to the homeless shelter.  To us, it is dreadful.  It has the texture of paste and not even palatable...for us.  Am throwing out the box we opened and canceling my order on subscribe and save.  When you consider how easy it is to make real oatmeal, I'm sorry I was fooled by these flavors."
,,,,,Great Sauce,"This is a great marinade for any kind of meat. I use it also in stir-fry or fried rice receipes.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004TGWCBQ"">Garlic Sesame Marinade & Glaze Sauce</a>"
,,,,,when can I get beaufort in the U.S!,"I had this cheese during the summer on a hiking trip through the French Alps.  We were able to go to a small producer and watch its preparation.  It is really delicious, better than Gruyere, to which it is often compared. When oh when can I get it in the U.S?"
,,,,,Wonderful coffee!,"WE LOVE JAMAICAN ME CRAZY coffee!!! It's smooth and rich with a hint of vanilla and caramel.  This is whole bean, so you do have to have a coffee grinder, but totally worth it!"
,,,,,You get what you pay for,"Caribbean Joy coconut milk offers a tempting price, lower than its competitors.  There's a good reason for its low price: by all accounts it tastes like half the visible amount is coconut milk, the rest being water.<br />Neither good for pina coladas or cooking, this is a poor value and I can't recommend it to anyone."
,,,,,Koma works and tastes great!!!,"this stuff really works, i love it and cant get enough.  It tastes amazing  Highly recommend trying it, you wont be disappointed!!"
,,,,,Definitely delivers on relaxation,"The drink has a pleasant taste, especially when very cold.  Within 20-30 minutes I do feel more relaxed, and my mind stops racing.  I am a nurse, and sometimes after a crazy 12 hour shift, it is hard to turn my brain off and sleep.  I keep replaying situations in my mind, and have a hard time relaxing.  This drink helps quiet my thoughts enough that I can fall asleep.  The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is because I usually have to get up in the night to use the bathroom after drinking a 12 oz drink before bed.  I do fall right back to sleep though, so I don't feel like my sleep is interrupted.  Will definitely keep this in the fridge for the end of a hectic day.  I love that it is sweetened with Splenda and not Nutrasweet.  Also, it is a nice ""calorie-free"" alternative to wine or beer for that end of day ""night cap""!"
,,,,,Koma is delicious,"I don't drink soda and have no interest in energy drinks - I love coffee. However, I enjoy chamomile tea before bed. This calming beverage is a great alternative to tea - especially in hot weather. I will be ordering more - wish it were available locally."
,,,,,Amazing drink!! Solved my problem.,"I have a very hectic lifestyle and need time to relax. I have always had trouble sleeping as my head is spinning. I have tried lots of methods to try and sleep well but nothing has worked. I saw this product in my local walmart and thought, what the heck, I'll try it.<br /><br />Wow, Why could they not have brought this product out years ago. After about 20 minutes my mind was able to let go and relax and I had the best nights sleep in a long time. The taste is awesome and it does not feel overwhelming like other products.<br /><br />I am ordering more to stock up my fridge, Just Great!!"
,,,,,Not what I expected,"My wife and I ordered 12 cans of the sugar free Koma Unwind.  I must admit I was skeptical, but I thought I would give it a try.  Boy, was I amazed by the refreshing flavor, but more importantly how I felt about 20 minutes or so after drinking a can of Koma Unwind.  I slept like a baby.  I just placed another order today for more.  I plan to give some to my friends who have trouble sleeping.  What a great concept by Koma. I will be a customer for life."
,,,,,Great product,"I was skeptical at first, but not anymore, did it's job and I slept like a baby.  Great taste and product works wonders, very relaxing"
,,,,,I love Koma,"I love Koma. It tastes great, it works, and the sugar-free version tastes exactly like the original (to me). I just ordered my third case."
,,,,,Awesome,I was at a Walmart in South Carolina and just picked some up. I was traveling and it helped me unwind.
,,,,,Good taste and relaxing,Bought a case to see what it was about.  I am a night owl which effects my day-to-day performance and father-related tasks.  After a can I do feel mellow and finding myself going to bed much earlier.
,,,,,Going into a Koma coma,"After 20-30 minutes you do feel alot more relaxed, reminded my of smoking a certain item when I was younger. Tastes great to boot!"
,,,,,"""This Tea should get the Nobel Peace Prize""","This is a very good tea as far as teabags go...traditionally loose tea is always better quality than teabag teas, But this is the exception...being organic as well as the least processed compared to other teas(White tea is the least processed of all teas)...teabags impart a subtle paper flavor that loose teas are free of...these bags are a cut above other teabagged teas(the subtle teabag flavor is less of a factor in this instance)... and are an excellent choice in leu of saving money...It took about six weeks to finally get delivered, but it was worth the weight...This one is a no brainer...!!!"
,,,,,"such a special gem, this one!","after reading the other reviews, i'm confused and don't think that anyone was talking about THIS TEA! (sounded like most comments pertained to prince of peace green tea, and don't have anything to do with the instant dong quai and red date tea that i clicked on...that being said, this is a remarkable tea...it's delicious, it's instant (so you don't have to wait for it to steep) and it's really good for you...i just love the taste of this, but then again - i enjoy the uniquely-bitter flavor of dong quai (but this isn't bitter, it's yummy!)...for those who don't know, dong quai is considered to be ""ginseng for women"" beceause it's very high in vit B12 and helps to keep women from becoming anemic (due the their monthly cycle)...it also is said to help regulate irregular periods, when used on a daily basis...that said, this tea is special because it helps to ""draw one's energy"" downwards (and the red date, adds to this effect in that red is the color of the 1st chakra)...in other words, this tea has aphrodisiac qualities and will create pleasnt feelings when taken before bed (and it's ""good for you"" and it tastes good and it's a snap to make)...so what's there to be quibbling about?"
,,,,,"After at least a year drinking this tea, some thoughts.","My household has this tea stocked up at all times.. not to say it's my favorite tea, but it's my favorite day to day tea. We tend to drink Green Tea for its health benefits and as Green Teas go this one is affordable and fairly high quality for tea bag types. A few notes.. you have to be fairly careful about steeping this tea, it doesn't have a whole lot of tolerance from ""crisp and delicious"" to ""overpowering and slightly off-putting"". I guess I attribute that to the freshness of the tea. I'm not sure. I've had a lot different results with loose tea in a ball and some herbal teas. While this tastes good when you get it right, if you forget the cup for a few minutes, it's not forgiving. That said, that's the only real drawback to this tea. Yes. I've had teas I would rate five stars, six if I could. Yes, they also cost 5-6x more than this easily for a quarter of the amount of tea. Bottom line, if you drink a lot of tea, this is a good brand to buy. If you don't drink a whole lot and would rather buy something really high quality for the few times you do partake of it, I'd look elsewhere."
,,,,,"Good tea, very gingery",This tea has a wonderfully strong ginger flavor.  The bags come individually wrapped in foil packets.  It steeps fast and the resulting mug of tea is murky and delightfully aromatic.  I love it and will undoubtedly use every bag in the next month or so.  The one thing I think anyone buying this product should be aware of is that they add stevia to the bags.  I am usually not a fan of stevia (to me it has a bitter aftertaste) but it was not overwhelming here.
,,,,,Tea,Purchased this tea because of recommendation. Product arrived well packaged and quickly. I am very pleased with this product and will purchase it again.
,,,,,it is a good product,I have tried this product before and I really love it. The price is fair and I enjoy it...
,,,,,Good tea wish it came in loose tea too.,I am sensitive to Caffeine and supposedly the White teas have 1/3 approx. what Black teas contain. And about half of what the green teas contain. This probably varies all over the place however. Often a decaf tea isn't. If you want no caf you need to look for caf free teas and drinks. I find a kick to this white tea but it definitely is not as bad as some of black teas. My husband and I can't tolerate a lot of tannins and this seems to be high in them as the other reviewer mentioned it's astringent properties. But we temper that with milk or 100% Cranberry Juice concentrates as well as lemon juice or powdered. Good both hot or iced. Looking forward to making sun tea for ice tea with these bags. Look on the net this item is cheaper as are all the Prince of Peace items else where even after paying shipping which is usually reasonable. I hope they don't up the price just because everyone else's white tea is higher. I wish it was available in a loose tea too. A smooth flavored good tasting tea that reminds me of teas I had as a child and at Chinese restaurants. Beats anything I can buy in local supermarkets.<br /><br />I did try the organic version and no way. This one is better for some reason. Stronger and overall a better product even the bag it'self is better than the organic's.
,,,,,good tea,The tea is good and fresh. We enjoy it. The shipping is fast and cost is reasonable.<br />I recommend this product.
,,,,,Nice Product,You get enough in each package to make a good size cup of drink.  It is consistent in its flavor and the amount you get in each packet.  I have purchased it a couple of times.
,,,,,Great herbal tea,If you don't have the time to cut up ginger and boil it for it's wonderful flavor here's an alternative.  This tea is refreshing.  True ginger flavor and punch is wonderful.
,,,,,Wrong Product wrong Name,"Gold Prince has made a terrible mistake.  There are two products.  COLDAID and FLUAID.  THey are different formulary.  Unfortunately they display Fluaid picture on the Amazon website and their own website but the words are COLDAID.  THere is a separate product for Coldaid.  Regardless -- if you order the FLUAID on AMAZON you will get the COLDAID...the picture is not the product...the words under the drop down menu are worthless...as they all default to the same product COLDAID.  If you want FLUAID, which is the superior product, don't buy it from AMAZON or off of the sellers website.  It is a mistake.http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002P936UK/ref=cm_cr_rev_prod_title"
,,,,,Bought at my local supermarket,I found this in the organic aisle at my local supermarket.  $[...] for one box of 100 opposed to 3 boxes being sold here with no shipping or waiting.  I would just like to know if anyone knows if this is a good quality for being a bagged tea.  I'm not a Pu-erh expert and I am looking for something as authentic as I can get without paying an arm and a leg.  Can anyone suggest a good quality??  The only reason I gave this a 3 is because it is something you can find at your supermarket without buying a pack of 3.
,,,,,The worst 'tea' I have ever tried.,I used quotes around the word tea because I doubt that the bags contain tea.  I wouldn't be surprised if the bags contained ground up sticks instead of tea.  I would not give this product a single star; it deserves zero stars in my opinion.<br />This tool is not allowing me to continue without giving the product at least one star.
,,,,,"Since I got the marinated morsals, that is all my cat will eat","I have used Fancy Feast for years. When I saw the Marinated Morsals come out, I tried them and no I ONLY get the Marinated Morsels, by request of ""Smoky (my black cat).<br /><br />He loves them and more than the other line.<br /><br /> If you cat is like Smoky, where he much prefers cat food with gravy on it, so that he licks through it and gets his meat with it as well. Plus, if you cat likes the smaller morals of food, like my cat does, then your cat should really like the Marinated Morsals.<br /><br />There have been times I have tried to switch to difference brands, but if the pieces of meat or fish are large for him, he will only lap up the gravy. The Marinated Morsals are his favorite.<br /><br />I keep waiting for my Smok to start talking to me, so I can understand his food choices as well as his philosophy on life :-), but until then, Smokey and the others cats that I have had, have seemed to communicate to me pretty darn well as what they want and have all trained me very well.<br /><br />Jon"
,,,,,Great nutrition...,"These guys are quite high on the nutritional scale but on these marinated morsels varieties, well, they hate them.  They get stuck in my cats' teeth and although it can be quite comical watching them afterwards, it just ins't worth them only eating about half a can and tossing the rest down the garbage disposal.  I recommend them for the nutritional value and please try them if you cat loves chicken.  My rescue loves many of the other varieties and this stuff has improved her quality of life tremendously. Recommend!"
,,,,,wine country gal,"My dughter used these, and loved the fresh taste of the tomatoes!  Said it was like she had just picked them fron a garden!"
,,,,,Must mix it with fruit or other tasty baby food,"I love the fact that this is multi-grain baby food.... but like people food, good for you things NEVER taste great... so mix it with bananas or some other fruit. Yes, the texture is a bit difficult to swallow for little ones, hence why you want to thin it out. I read the other reviews and can't believe they never thought to mix this food with something else."
,,,,,"Like this texture, and tastes good","We love this vegetable pouch for our 18 month old, and more importantly she likes it too. I like that it has sort of a dry texture compared to basic blended vegetables. I stir a touch of milk into it each time and it makes it really creamy. She always finishes it, and its one of our favorites."
,,,,,My son at 21 months STILL loves this one,"My son has been eating the multi-grain super greens with gusto from when he was 8 months old. He likes it cold or warm. Yes, it's quite plain tasting to our grown-up palates but in my opinion great for the little ones. I started putting some cracked pepper and herbs on it more recently. Sometimes, I serve it as a snack, sometimes as a side dish to meatballs or chicken. Highly recommended."
,,,,,healthy but my baby wouldnt eat it,My 9 1/2 month old would mush this around in her mouth and not swallow it.  There isnt much she doesnt like but she sure doesnt like this stuff.  It looks like a weird mushy green stuff.  I am sure it is super healthy but she didnt like it at all.
,,,,,Weird texture,The grains make this food really flakey. It just doesn't stick together and was falling off the spoon. A major mess really. It also doesn't have a zip lock top and I thought it did like many of the other pouch foods and took this with us out to dinner. I ended up putting the leftovers in a plastic baggie. My baby also was not a fan of this at all and she is not a picky eater. Even my dogs turned their nose up at it and I thought it tasted pretty nasty.
,,,,,GOOD,"It's more of a side dish than a main dish. Cook in some chili beans and peppers then it's more of a meal. It also made a very good taco salad. It was also good as burrito filling with some extra cheese. This is a good starting point to let your imagination make good great. The expiration date on mine was good for a year, well into 2008."
,,,,,Very Good and Relatively Inexpensive,"I made this last night for dinner. It was very good. I substituted the cheese topping they provide with real cheese and then used the casserole as burrito filling. It made 14 burritos (8 inch), so it goes a long way.<br /><br />If you like spicy stuff it is a little bland but that is expected with boxed meals. On the other hand, if you don't like spicy, then it is a little hot...so that could go either way.<br /><br />As a side note--there isn't much meat in this so if you are wanting lots of hamburger, you would be better off with something else."
,,,,,OK; But Not As Good As Other,"Of course, it's a taste opinion.  I gave it four stars because it's easy and quite edible.  Probably three stars as just food.<br /><br />Wrap a tortilla around some or eat it plain, it makes an interesting and fairly good, filling meal.  I have no idea why somebody would toss it; it just ain't that bad, folks.  Not the greatest din-din in the world; but not at all bad, either.  But then, if you hate chewing a taco, then you may not like it.<br /><br />Personally, I prefer the Stroganoff and love the chicken and biscuits.  I've ordered the Alfredo, so we'll see about that.  However, these are all easy meals for a decent price.  I'm a retired guy living along, so they're great for me.  Probably a nice idea for a college student or two.  For anyone, a nice package to have around for a busy day.  Feeds two hungry folks, three normal folks.  A bit skimpy for four; unless they're dieting."
,,,,,Bad product,Sent this to my mother to help her out with groceries since she is on a fixed income. She said it was horrible and would be throwing the other 2 boxes out. So I would not reccomend this product.
,,,,,Best chestnuts ever,"Have roasted and peeled chestnuts all my life. Since I have less time and energy now, I ordered these in a jar already peeled. Tried lots of different ones and found these to be the most tasteful and clean and fresh."
,,,,,If you love licorice....,"This is one of two licorice mints that I would recommend.  They are indeed difficult to find and at this time (6/2011) Amazon does not carry my other favorite, St. Claire's.  Nonetheless, Meltzer's has beneficial herbs and a mild but definite licorice flavor.  Not one of the ""licorice-flavored"" gummy candies.  Two or three of these little hard pastilles, and you're done.  No black tongue either!  Treat yourself, and indulge in these little gems."
,,,,,Go for it!,"The Butterfinger has been around since it was introduced by the Curtiss Candy Company of Illinois in 1923. In the 1990s, they put a new wrinkle on the trademark by making Butterfinger BBs. Those were good, but they really outdid themselves when they invented the Butterfinger Crisp! The Butterfinger Crisp is made of baked wafers sandwiching layers of Butterfinger flavored cream. Then, the whole thing is wrapped in chocolate.<br /><br />Yeah, this candy bar is great, a real improvement on the original. It has that same great Butterfinger taste, but without that stick-to-teeth consistency. If anything it even tastes better! The normal-sized Butterfinger Crisp contains 210 calories, but a nice thing is that it comes in the form of two bars, which allows you to eat one as a (roughly) 100 calorie snack and save the other one for tomorrow's snack. I wish that they did that with other candy bars.<br /><br />Anyway, if you like Butterfingers, or if you like wafer-candy, then you will like Butterfinger Crisps. Go for it!"
,,,,,A Crisp way to eat butterfinger,Butterfinger crips is so good its like eating a really fresh butterfinger. I order online because I had a hard time finding them in the stores. If you like butterfingers you will like butterfinger crisp. A light candybar not to heavy on your stomach.
,,,,,Love these,"All of my 3 girls - from the black lab, akita, and pomeranian love these treats. I love them because I can disguise any of the dogs meds in them, and they will still eat it!! Great."
,,,,,Healthy Treat,"All of us like to give treats to our pets, but some of them are just too high in fat or too calorie laden.  My dog was just diagnosed with diabetes, and our vet suggested we use these chicken bits as her treats instead of the normal Milk Bone type biscuits. They are very low in fat and high in protein, very chewy and my dog just LOVES them.  I wish the treats were a bit larger for my Lab,so I end up giving her two.  If you have a smaller dog, they also make these treats in a smaller size.  Also these are just the right size to use as treats if you are training your dog."
,,,,,Butlers NutriSentials Lean Treats for Large Dogs 10oz. 8 Pack,"Lean Treats for big dogs is a great product and Goldie Loves them, and yes this was the best price and it was shipped on time... Tom (12)"
,,,,,Dog treats,My dog absolutely loves these treats! He's a very picky eater and this is the only treat he will eat.  The fact that they are pretty healthy makes me very happy.
,,,,,Great cat treat that is also good for them,"When a locale store started carrying Wellness products, this was one of them. I purchased a bag and my cats loved it. I went back to the store to buy more and guess what; they were sold out. This was almost a year ago!!! They still have not restocked this product because ""their corporate computers do all the ordering for them"" and not an actual human that knows what sells and what doesn't. Needless to say, this store is a chain pet supply store and well, they have since lost a lot of local business (from me alone) as I have found that I can purchase the same product for much less via Amazon and also get it in as little as a few days."
,,,,,Pupstar,"Wellness Pure Delights are very tasty, moist and healthy that most of our finicky cats seem to enjoy. Definitely will buy more in the future."
,,,,,"Great,Healthy Cat Treats","Although a little pricey, these are a great way to give your cat a healthy treat. My cat has a sensitive stomach and cant always eat the treats I have gotten for him without him throwing up. I stopped using grocery store treats and moved to Natural Balance but they were too much for his tummy, but these treats he absolutley loves and he never gets sick afterwards. Also, with the all natural ingredients I feel good about rewarding him.<br />(p.s. since they are natural ingredients they are stinky like salmon.)"
,,,,,untitled,"I usually give my kitten Catswell treats, because they are straight forward with ingredients, and use cage free chicken.  Well Petco did not have them in stock so this looked like a good alternative. He likes these just as much as the other ones.  I tried giving another cat these treats and he kind of smelled it and walked away, but ended up eating it once it was on the floor."
,,,,,Okay,"I have 4 cats, and none of them really like these treats. They will eat them eventually, but the certainly don't go wild for them. I do like that grain and chicken free, so they are good for cats with allergies."
,,,,,Not meant for my cat's whiskers,"I really wanted my 2 yr old cat to like these treats because I already feed her Wellness wet food, which is excellent by itself. Perhaps she's too used to the Whiskas Temptations that I normally give her, but she did not like the jerky bits at all. I did notice it was hard for her to pick up because they're pretty flat, and the texture is chewier than what she's used to. The 3rd time I gave her the treats, she vomited it out. Looks like it's back to the less healthy alternative."
,,,,,"vet recommended and we agree, natural is the best....","We recently adopted a shelter kitten and our vet recommended several natural food brands that she felt were superior to our regular supermarket cat food.  As we feel our new addition deserves the best we can give her we not only wanted to make sure her regular food was of high quality and good for her but as our vet said, don't forget to check that her treats are high quality/natural too.  As we were already purchasing the Wellness brand from her list, we tried these treats.<br /><br />On first glance I thought, wow, almost $5.00 for this little bag, that's pricey, but they are very small jerky type treats and they last a long time if you are only giving your pet a few at a time.  My cat loves these and we have found that her coat seems to be very shiny and silky-not sure if these treats contribute, but they could.  We love the fact that they don't have corn, wheat, soy or a bunch of other stuff she really doesn't need.  We also used these treats as a training incentive to teach her to sit for a treat....it worked!  People laugh, but now we call her and hold up the bag and she looks up at her treat and sits down.  If you don't give it to her right away she walks closer and sits again....smart kitty and she loves those treats.  This is the first flavor we tried, but have since tried others and she loves them all.<br /><br />If you would like to try something more natural for your kitty, I would give these a go.  We have been more than pleased and these are now the only treats we consider buying for her."
,,,,,My cat loves these,"My cat absolutely loves these things. The only downside to them is that they will dry out after a while. Other than that, they're great healthy cat snacks."
,,,,,Best Treats Out There!,"Annabelle (my three year old Persian mix) absolutely adores these. She does not like any other treats. These are perfect, because they're chewy, so they feel and taste different from her food. She does tricks for them and always comes running when we bring them out. Definitely try them. They are healthy (grain free) and perfect for any kitty! To the comment about the bag, just buy a treat jar. Works much better, and it looks cuter on your shelf or counter :)"
,,,,,LOL My cat attacks me for these!,"I have discovered the Wellness brand of cat food, and I (and my cat) adore it. I only wish it were easier to afford! Still, Amazon seems to either match PetSmart or have a better deal. (These treats, they only matched the price, but I like Amazon)<br /><br />When I open the bedside drawer that these are stored in, Ariel comes running! She would tear the bag open and eat them all if I were to accidentally leave it out! She LOVES these treats.<br /><br />I am glad that I can spoil my cat with healthy treats/food like the Wellness brand. I highly recommend these treats, although as long as they remain 4.99 you might want to first purchase from a local pet store to make sure your cat likes them."
,,,,,"Healthy, but not really tasty","I bought these for my cat and if I give them to him, he'll eat them, but it's not the type of treat he'll do tricks for or run over to eat. It's a healthier alternative to other treats, but I wouldn't buy them again because my main point of buying treats is to train my cat to do tricks or reward him for good behavior. These treats simply don't entice him enough to really be a treat."
,,,,,This is the one for Heidi,"The ingredients are good and my cat loves it. She's never walked away from it, so I was very surprised when my son's cats did. I decided to rate it from my cat's point of view."
,,,,,Sometimes my cat eats them...sometimes he doesnt,This product is really a hit or miss. My cat does not seem to go crazy over these treats....Sometimes he does not eat these right away.
,,,,,Great soft little treats for your finicky feline,"I have 2 cats.  One will eat anything.  The other one is soooo picky.  She's had to have some of her teeth removed due to a mouth virus, so I needed to find some good soft treats.  She likes these more than anything I've tried.  They are really thing little tiny strips.  I like Wellness, all natural products.  Both cats like their brand cat food as well."
,,,,,Great for ferrets too!,"On the first offer my ferret didn't want the treat. But a couple of days later I noticed him trying to steal the whole bag, so I offered a piece again. This time, and ever since, he's loved it. Go figure!<br /><br />I like this treat for ferrets because the pieces are appropriately sized (ie- small) for a ferret, and the ingredients and stats are superior to most ferret treats! His digestion has been less affected by these than by many ferret treats also :)"
,,,,,My cat loves 'em!,"Great natural treat for my cat, whose health I want to keep strong for many years. And he loves them!!!"
,,,,,14 week old Scottish Fold kitten loves these,"I got these for my kitten and he loves them.<br /><br />The comment made about the bag being hard to open isn't really that big of a deal, I haven't had any problems closing or opening properly. Though, I would much prefer a container type packaging since those are easier to get into especially if you're training a cat you don't want to hold a bunch of cat treats in your hand because the bag keeps closing on you. But the bag closes/opens like any other zip lock.<br /><br />I feed my kitten chicken flavored cat food, so I try and offset the treats with a different meat and Wellness salmon treats work great and it's healthy without all those fillers.<br /><br />This review is for the treat NOT the bag, so I highly recommended this. 5 stars."
,,,,,real jerky!,"My cat seems to really like these.  As one reviewer said, they will dry out if the bag isn't sealed.  I haven't had any problems with sealing the bag that I purchased."
,,,,,my kitties didn't care for them,"I liked that these treats didn't have anything gross in them (i.e., corn, wheat, soy, by-products).  My cats don't really care for salmon, but i thought since it was mixed with turkey, which they love, they might like them. Well they didn't, they took one sniff and wanted nothing to do with them.  Though my inside cats didn't want them, the stray cats outside loved them."
,,,,,"The food is great, but the bag sucks",My cats loved the treats but everytime I try to use the bags zipper to close it up I gotta fiddle with it for a while just to close the bag. Eventually The bag didn't close properly and all the treats dried out causing the cats to lose interest. I plan to buy another but this time I will dump it in my own container.
,,,,,My dog loves these bones.,"I bought one of these bones for my lab/shepard mix, 65 pound dog, and she loved it.  I bought the first one from Petco and the large size was 8 dollars.  Amazon is over 50% cheaper and there is free shipping.  Before committing to 8 bones, you can do what I did and head on over to your local pet shop to see if they carry these bones and then see if your dog likes them.  It takes my lab about 1 hour to eat the whole bone.  I really like that it breaks into small pieces which eliminates my worries about my dog choking on a big piece of bone."
,,,,,Ok product but bleeds color,I have a 10 month old Weimaraner that loved the Busy Bone Chewbone treat. He has some separation anxiety and they can help keep him calm. It takes him about 15-20 minutes to eat but it is long enough for him to calm himself down. I just make sure he keeps it off white stuff. The red  center bleeds a little if he drops the wet side down or a piece gets broken off and falls on a light surface.  My dog will chew on one end then leave it if he gets distracted then come back and chew on the other end and the wet side dies surface he is on. I have been able to clean it out of stuff easily enough but it is a little bit of a annoying that I have to. I also wish they were cheaper.
,,,,,"Expensive, Messy and Quick","I had pretty high hopes for the Busy Bone. I have a large, active chewer (the kind of dog that has to have several bones to choose from all the time if you don't want her to chew up your bed frame). I was hoping that with the Busy Bone's 'long-lasting' promise, I might be able to just give her one of these and at least have time to wash the dishes. Why don't I describe what happened next...<br />I was in the kitchen washing the dishes. It had been about fifteen minutes since I'd given the dog the bone. Deeply absorbed in annoyance with myself for not rinsing said dishes, I was scrubbing vigorously when an awful sound met my ears: a terrible and hauntingly familiar crunching noise. The dog was eating my bed. So I go into the bedroom to scold her and even before I get a chance to look at the bed frame, I am struck by the mess she has caused. The Busy Bone somehow leaves little brown crumbles ALL over the floor. Too small and numerous to pick up by hand and too gushy for the vacuum cleaner to clean up, the oobleck has to be washed out of the carpet with a dish rag. And did I mention that they're expensive?<br />I will continue to stick with real bones that I purchase from the butcher. They're cheaper, they last longer, and they don't leave a terrible mess."
,,,,,Not very busy...,"My dog demolished her busy bone in under 5 minutes. I think she basically ate it, which was a huge disappointment. We were hoping for something that we could give her that she would ENJOY, but also something that would last a bit longer. In addition to being more of a treat than a chew, these things are messy. She had it all over the floor around her,and all over her paws. It makes a sticky...goop that isn't very easy to clean up. I definitely won't buy these again, it's too expensive to only last 5 minutes."
,,,,,Almost 5 stars,"I like the busy bones.  My pit has to work at it a bit harder than she does some of other ""large"" bones on the market.  I do wish it would last a little longer.  She can finish one in under 5 minutes.  I'm giving it to her because I want her to be BUSY.  Not distracted for 5 minutes."
,,,,,German Shepherd sized treat lasts about an hour,I buy this as a special treat. It lasts about an hour and my large dog really enjoys it.
,,,,,Busy Bones,"These bones are pricey but my German Shepard loves them. Because the bones are so dense and heavy they take a lot longer to devour, hence the name, Busy Bone."
,,,,,Doggie gone wild......,"Our German Short Haired Pointer goes crazy for these bones.  They are big, tough and it takes our 100 pound dog a good hour to chew through this!"
,,,,,Purina Busy Bone Dog Treat-My Pets' Favorite,"This quality product is my dogs favorite healthy chew treat.  They enjoy the Purina Busy Bone, immensely.  They prefer this treat to rawhide chews and do not quit on the Purina Busy Bone until it is finished."
,,,,,Purina Busy Bone - A Lethal Product for your Dog,"I write this letter after considerable thought and anguish.  On Friday morning, February 25, 2011, I was awakened by the screams of my fianc&eacute;e Lori as she sat on the living room floor cradling Greta, our 2  year-old registered female Pug.  Greta crawled under the coffee table and there choked to death alone on a Purina Busy Bone.<br /><br />I'm left wondering how Purina, a company with a name as iconic as Betty Crocker, Bayer, Gerber and General Mills, could have not only manufactured such a lethal product, but, as I've since discovered on the Internet, has had issues with it in the deaths of other dogs for some time - and not pulled this dangerous item from the shelves.  I find this absolutely appalling.  I'm 57 years-old and I've put my trust in Purina products since I was a child.  And now our beloved Greta, purchased from a breeder as an adorable puppy in the fall of 2008, is dead because of your product.  And Lori, my sweetheart of 32 years, a stroke victim in 2004 and who most certainly can do without this kind of stressful catastrophe; a great animal lover, has had her heart torn asunder.  She's simply devastated - and angry.  And so am I.<br /> Did you know that in the United States its citizens spend more on their pets than their children?  Are you familiar with the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show series which includes the world's finest breeds in competition for ""Best in Show,"" including the Chinese Pug?  Do you have any idea of the loss we've suffered at your negligent hands?<br /> I could talk about the money we paid for Greta from the breeder, and having her spayed (we don't breed our beloved pets; we keep them as loving companions for as long as we can).  And there are the regular check-ups, and shots and so on.  I find it bitterly ironic that the veterinary office we use is within walking distance of the Kroger store from which we purchased your killing Busy Bone.<br /> I have a 91 year-old father who lives alone.  I visit him at least twice a week, sometimes more if time allows.  He certainly appreciates those visits.  But he also has a fulltime companion - Spencer, his Jack Russell terrier.  Spencer will turn 12 in May.  Dad is disabled, uses a walker, is scheduled for heart-valve replacement surgery at the Cleveland Clinic, and has a myriad of other health issues.  Yet despite them he has managed to take very good care of his dog.  And I believe if it weren't for the loving attention Spencer gives dad, he would not be alive today.  His dog has given him something special - the gift of life.  Something which Purina has stolen away from us.  You'd think that Purina would have the same consideration for the welfare of dogs in this country as a disabled 91 year-old man.  But tragically that's not the case.<br /> Yet there's more.  We also have a male pug which we named Winston because he has the same tenacious bulldog features etched into his amazing face as that of Winston Churchill.  Winston, like Greta was, is truly an individual - a soulful companion.  And like us, he's now subdued.  He's actually depressed because his playmate has disappeared and he doesn't understand why.  This concerns me.<br /> I am a professional photographer and writer by trade.  I work with the general public and I have to present a side to it which instills confidence.  Writing, by nature, requires a certain state of mind as well.  As a result of losing Greta, all I can think about now is me handing her a Busy Bone, not knowing that it would snatch her away from us forever a short while later.  The guilt is killing me.  How can I write?  How can I do anything?  Grief passes they say.  But tragic memories remain fixed for a lifetime.  And what makes things worse in this case is that Greta's death could have been prevented.<br /> Though both Winston and Greta liked the Busy Bone, several times in the past Greta had gagged on it.  So, I served her a smaller portion each time, which, after careful observation I assumed resolved the problem.  In retrospect I should have responded more to the concerns Lori expressed over this potential danger to begin with.  In a brief moment, while we were in another room, Greta died because of your product.  And why should such a product even exist?  Why wasn't it at least labeled as a choking hazard?  Why didn't Purina conduct the adequate safety research before releasing this product to the stores?<br /> The answer is self-evident: Gross negligence.  A negligence which has caused the death of not only our beloved Greta and other dogs, but has now indelibly left its mark in Lori's and my life.  We'll never be able to erase the painful images seared into our minds of her lying still on the floor.  I lie awake at night thinking about it now, as well as remembering digging her grave in our backyard through such anguish that even I, a writer, cannot express in words.  It's now the closest we can get to our special friend.  We are utterly distraught.  Greta, only 2  years-old, healthy and in her prime, a wonderful, loving companion, is gone forever.  It's a horrid loss that cannot be replaced - thanks to Purina.<br /> The very least Purina can do is pull all forms of the Busy Bone from the market immediately, and to conduct adequate, responsible research in the future before releasing any Purina product.<br /><br /> Karl and Lori<br /> Former owners of beloved Greta, purebred female pug.  Our baby.  Gone forever."
,,,,,Great Buy BUT,"Bought these for my two dogs, one and English Mastiff and the other a Black Mouth Cur [...].  I thought it might keep them occupied for at least an hour as other reviewers had stated. Well, of course, my dogs had to be different. 10 minutes flat, all chewed and gone. I might add, both of my dogs are aggressive chewers and that's the reason I went looking for something that would last. For other dogs, who chew normally, it may well last for an hour or so.<br /><br />They both love these bones and this packaging is a great buy. I will continue to buy and give as a weekend treat for my boys."
,,,,,Damaged spoiled formula!,"We have ordered Elecare from this shipper twice.  The first time, we received it next day and were very happy.  The second time, it arrived next day as well, but two of the cans had opened and the box got wet, causing the inside of the box to be covered in clumps of spoiled formula.  When we used one of the unopened cans (we had to since we had nothing else to feed the baby and this product is not sold in stores) the baby became sick for several days."
,,,,,Poor quality beans,"Overpriced beans, they are packed in a glass tube that is not air tight.<br /><br />The beans were thin and almost dry.<br /><br />Get the cheaper options at amazon instead, they are much better and way cheaper..."
,,,,,Excellent seasoning,"Very tasty, I used it for years, they recently added more red peppers and that's makes it more spicy that I prefer, but it still very good."
,,,,,Best ever,"We were unable to find this in any of our supermarkets since April. Finally decided to order it. Service was fast and product was what we were looking for. For any of you who have never tried this, it makes mongolian beef better than any chinese restaurant."
,,,,,Excellent Flavor,"This product is excellent.  Tried it one night for a quick, easy dinner and the whole family loved it, including my very fussy 19 year old daughter!  Well worth trying for yourself."
,,,,,Love it!,This seasoning is easy to use and delicious.  I recommend you add some sliced mushrooms too.  It's a great addition.  Served with brown rice and broccoli - it's a favorite at our house!
,,,,,Great Seasoning,"I love this seasoning and actually bought it on amazon after searching everywhere to find it after the store i use to buy it from closed.  I use this seasoning with chicken, too."
,,,,,Great Mongolian Beef Mix,I bought this once at my local grocer and it was so good I went back to get more and it was gone.  I asked the store to get it again and they never did so found it at Amazon.  Placing my second order today since I am down to my last pack.
,,,,,Very Good Mongolian Beef,"This was the first time I have made Mongolian Beef.  My son suggested it, he had it at a friend's house.  So with our next Chinese dinner (I like to make all my own foods) we made this.  It was a tad spicy for me, perhaps I needed to add more beef or a little water.  Will definitely make again.  By the way, you can buy the seasoning packet at Wal-Mart.<br /><br />Redd1295"
,,,,,Taste is Authentic,"This is a simple and delicious. I have made this several times, just add beef and spring onions. It is really delicious, tastes almost like the Mongolian Beef we order from PF Changs China Bistro.  One of my favorites and so easy too."
,,,,,Instruction Translation problem solvers,When I lived in Germany I bought this all the time over there. The biggest problem was of course everything was written in German. Since you have a computer just go to a translation website and scan in the instructions and have them changed to English. From there you can use the product.
,,,,,READ BEFORE BUYING,"I had used this frequently on and off over the years and didn't realize that it is not sold in the US any longer.  In the past the instructions were in English on the packet but I don't recall what they were. Now it is entirely in German and no one I know speaks a word of the language. I don't have a scanner so one of the solutions suggested won't work.  Don't buy before realizing that if you don't speak German and have no one to translate you are in a pickle.. I have 10 packs now!  Another thing, all 10 packs expire in 6 months time, so don't buy in bulk unless you plan to eat a lot of sauerbraten.  Rated 1 only because I am unable to use the product and the product description does not mention either the language issue or the near term expiration date."
,,,,,Language Barrier,"I would we willing to try this product, and have six envelopes in my cupboard, but unfortunately the instructions are in German.  Maybe I can hire an interpreter??"
,,,,,Keeps the pups healthy,"I recently invited a baby mini doxie into my family and had an existing 2 lb. chihuahua that the vet constantly told me to try and fatten up. I would try hamburger and cottage cheese and all the things he told me and she would either get a tummy ache or just not gain weight. I bought this food with the doxie in mind and fed it to the chihuahua too and she started to gain weight within the week. I now have to watch the portions i give her or she will over gain. Two healthy dogs with the help of this food. When the doxie gets older, I will continue to buy the Eukanuba adult brand."
,,,,,My dog is so Healthy,I now know why so many people recommended this brand. The quality is amazing and you can tell the difference in substance compared to other dog foods. Even the organic type.
,,,,,Eukanuba,"Puppy loves the food.  Never has digestive issues.  Love the 16 lb bag, so I only have to buy one per month."
,,,,,YUMMY,Since I have not been able to eat fat there are many things that I miss eating.  Tortillas were something I ate alot and really missed.  You would never know that these are fat free.  The only complaint that I have is that the tortillas stick together and I have torn many of them.  I would say that in the big picture I would rather have a torn tortilla that no tortilla at all. I plan to reorder when I run out.
,,,,,Tortillas scarce as honest politicians,"The fat free La Bandarita flour tortillas are great when I can find them.<br />Wal-mart is supposed to carry them in my local stores, but they don't.<br />So I turned to Amazon, and now they don't have them either!"
,,,,,Delicious,"One of the best mass produced teas I have tried. Light Keemun flavour, delicious with or without milk and can sit in the pot without tasting stewed. A great bargain in the 6 pack."
,,,,,Real Tea,"I had tried this tea in bags before.  I prefer leaf tea.  When the local shop ran out of Irish Breakfast tea, I tried this instead.  Very good flavor that recalls UK trips.  I would recommend this tea to anyone."
,,,,,My favorite tea,"A delicious strong black tea with enough flavor to stand up to milk and sugar. Might take some getting used to if you don't usually drink black tea, but for the aficionado it's one of the best."
,,,,,Very weak tea,"As a fan of English & Irish breakfast teas, I found this tea to be very weak flavored.  If you like milder/weaker teas, this may be for you.  But if you like more robust flavors, steer clear of this one."
,,,,,Love this tea,"This is my new favorite tea. It is absolutely delicious and even after it's sat and gotten cold, it's good. I'm not a fan of milk in my tea but I'll drink this without sugar, no problem. It has a naturally creamy flavor. Fantastic tea."
,,,,,Very Tasty,I ordered these as a gift in June. They tasted great! They did not arrive in picture perfect condition due to the heat but I was contacted by the company to see what they could do for me.  The strength of a company is not found in things that go correctly but rather in the things that go wrong and what they do about them.  I would recommend them highly
,,,,,"Well shipped, loved by all",They were shipped in ICE. That's pretty cool. They arrived in the summer Texas heat without even the slightest hint of melting.
,,,,,Excellent in every way!,"Simply Splendid Chocolate Covered Cherry Cordials! Perhaps the best we have found. I went to their web site and found a large assortment of other chocolates and ordered more from there. They shipped quickly (ordered December 3rd, arrived the 7th). The candy was slightly melted (who would expect 80 degree heat on December 7th? Oh, yeah, Fort Worth, Texas). However, my wife loved them!"
,,,,,Chocolate Heaven,My wife is very fond of chocolate covered cherries and has tried just about every brand.  She assures me that these are the very best she's ever eaten.
,,,,,"these little lentils taste terrific, are USDA organic","Very welcome addition to the kitchen cupboard...these USDA organic small black lentils Westbrae Brand come packed to the top in a 15-ounce can and are ready to eat. The ingredients are water, organic black lentils, and sea salt.  Nutrition info is:<br />Servings per container: 3.5<br />Serving size: 1/2 cup (or 130 grams)<br />Calories per serving:  90<br />Fat (trans, saturated) 00. Zero<br />Cholesterol: 0.  Zero<br />Sodium: 125 milligrams<br />Total carb: 16 grams<br />Dietary fiber:  8 grams<br />Sugars: 1 gram<br />Protein:7 grams<br />Since Beluga black lentils are said to have a higher protein content (24 grams per serving?)You can see that these small black lentils are different from Beluga...<br />I was glad to see that nice blue label on the website  for Heirloom Beluga lentils, glad to learn about them and would like to order them.  What I received from this webpage was small black lentils, not Beluga.  Instead of belugas,I received Vegetarian organic black lentils.  Not that I'm sorry about it; the can label has a wonderful recipe for soup, and a vegetarian diet pyramid for nutrition.  These small black organic lentils are delicious and nourishing.  I recommend them to you to try, and I'd like an opportunity to order and try the Heirloom Beluga lentils as well sometime.  You'll like the small organic black lentils, many ways to serve them."
,,,,,My dog loves these!,My dog loves greenies and didn't notice the switch from the regular to the lite.  She loves them either way!
,,,,,great product,"This product is very healthy for your body, it is cost effective because is not mixed with other things, it comes with a little spoon with the right measurement for your drinks. I bought it in Peru, and I want to find it in the US.  Is better than other stevia products I have bought in the past."
,,,,,ColCafe Greaatt Coffee,Taste is much superior to the regular freeze dried that you get in the supermarket.  I would bet you will enjoy the taste as much as we do.
,,,,,"The best cherry soda, ever!","I love cherry soda, but this product is the best cherry soda  that I have ever tasted.  Sweet and slightly tart at one and the same time.  Try it once, and you will be hooked for good."
,,,,,BEST BLUEBERRIES,"In the winter when fresh blueberries exceed our food budget these dried blue berries are fine for muffins, breads and puddings.<p>  We also enjoy fruit on our cereal.  In the winter it is often oatmeal and we sprinkle these blueberries on a bowl of oatmeal - wonderful on a cold morning."
,,,,,Really good,Was pleasantly surprised at how good these pretzels were.There are 3 servings per bag at 140 calories each.This is about 14 to 15 pretzels.The pretzels are really filling.The bag has approximately 45 pretzels.I was expecting them to be bland since they are made with natural ingredients but they are very flavorful.Made in the USA is a big plus.
,,,,,yummy for the tummy,"These are delicious,with just the right touch of mustard and a nice crunch.I would definitely consider buying them again.The bags are generously filled,too."
,,,,,Longest Lasting Gum on the market,Five Gum is a new product from Wrigley's. I'm always on the lookout for new gum since I like having something to chew while I'm driving. I came across this back in august and was pleasantly surprised. The flavor lasts a really long time and is relatively strong.
,,,,,Zesty spearmint and lemon are modulated by green tea into a substantial potion!,"Zen brews up to an golden amber liquor.  The aroma is sweet spearmint.  The blending of this tea is excellent--spearmint could be overpowering but they use just the right amount of it.  Slightly sweet spearmint is the primary flavor, then you taste a hint of lemon.  The green tea provides an herbal base for these two flavors that makes the intial impression of zesty spearmint and lemon modulate into a substantial potion.  Very nice and satisfying with a clean spearmint aftertaste.<br /><br />Remember that this tea does have caffeine--however, it does not say how much on the box.  A good estimate might be 30 mg--compared to 90mg for the average cup of coffee.  Make sure you time how long you brew this tea because if you brew too long it becomes bitter.  Four minutes is ample."
,,,,,My favorite tea,"Light, sweet and oh so good is how I would describe this tea. I first had it at a hotel at the complimentary breakfast and loved it so much, I went to Amazon and ordered more that same day."
,,,,,Delicious tea!,"This Passion tea is used at Starbucks. We mix it with two Lipton tea bags for iced tea. Really good, fruity flavor. Great for summer!"
,,,,,Daily Calming,The vendor is fast and dependable. The tea is simply the best way to relax and great tasting too. Highly recommend !!
,,,,,Addicted!!!!,This tea is amazing. I drink it iced with sugar and lime. It will blow your mind. The taste is similar to a flavor of kool-aid that I had as a child. I can just drink glass after glass of this tea.
,,,,,Good orange flavor,"Sharp orange flavor with a tolerable spearmint taste. I've tried many of the less expensive brands and haven't liked any other except this one and Good Seasons Tuscany. I'm not crazy about all of the Tazo drinks, but this one is nice. I love drinking this tea with chocolate. It comes in an orange package. You can also smell the other spices. Don't make the mistake I make, by adding too much water. As with many products, amazon is over charging."
,,,,,Aluminum free baking soda,I had a difficult time trying to find aluminum free baking soda and finally found it on Amazon.  It was shipped quickly and the seller put in several free samples of natural beverage mixes. (which I really appreciated and will use) Very pleased with this product.
,,,,,Aluminum free baking soda,"I was real happy to find this. No stores in my area carry it, nor does my health food store. I feel better knowing this is aluminum free. I basically use it to maintain a ph of around 7. Works perfect."
,,,,,"IC sufferer's ""rescue""","Aluminum-free baking soda is something every IC sufferer should have on hand in case of flare-ups. This baking soda is just as effective as regular baking soda, but without the toxic aluminum. Highly, highly recommend. Super fast shipping, too, great seller!"
,,,,,Aluminum Free Baking Soda,"I bought this Baking Soda to clean my teeth 3 times a week.  They say that teeth become noticeably whiter.<br />But you've to to be very gentle while brushing and use ""soft"" type tooth brush.  I did notice a difference.<br /><br />Also, I noticed that when Baking Soda was mixed with water, the PH indicator showed the highest level (almost 8.5-9 on the chart).<br />This may explain why Baking Soda is so effective to fight germs.<br /><br />It's a good product."
,,,,,They're all aluminum free.,"Arm & Hammer's baking soda is aluminum free, they just don't write it on their packaging.<br /><br />I wasn't sure so I called them and they said there is no aluminum in it, and they would have to state it if there was because people take the product internally.  This leads me to believe that there just isn't aluminum in baking soda.  And researching it showed me that there might have been in the past, but not anymore and not for a long time.<br /><br />I resent that Bob's Red Mill writes ""Aluminum Free"" on their package and then charges a premium for their product.  It's also arsenic free, I hope.  If they label it ""Arsenic Free"" will we assume other brands aren't?  I don't like that kind of marketing."
,,,,,fyi: NO Baking Sodas contain aluminum,"Just to clear things up, no brand of Baking Soda contains aluminum. Some baking POWDERS do (so check these labels), but not baking soda. The benefits of this brand vs. A&H, for example, is the way in which they are mined. Bob's is mined naturally so this baking soda is in it's natural state (yay). A&H on the other hand uses chemicals during it's mining process. So, yes, Bob's is more natural. No, you don't have to worry about aluminum when buying any brand of baking soda (this label is just a marketing gimmick ... for shame...). Check out: [...]"
,,,,,Baking Soda,Bob's Red Mill Baking Soda is an excellent product for baking with or making your own toothpaste.<br />It is aluminum free and free of any other harmful chemicals. We use it as a safe/legal product<br />on the Specific Carbohydrate Diet in healing my boys with ASD and healing my own fibromyalgia<br />as we have difficulty ridding our body of harmful toxins in foods.
,,,,,All Baking Soda is Aluminum Free,All baking soda is aluminum free. This is an unnecessary marketing ploy to get you to buy their product. Buy this because it is naturally mined and is cruelty free; but do not be duped into thinking that good ole $.59 Arm&Hammer has aluminum in it. BTW the chemical process used to make A&H is almost exactly what occurs in nature; just faster but not cheaper. It costs no more to mine sodium bicarbonate than it does to manufacture. So yes you are paying for a name.
,,,,,Reliable Product,I have been using this product to increase my PH score after a bout of TA State 1 Bladder cancer.  There is no aftertaste and it leaves me with a clean feeling.  Delivery from Amazon's vendor in Kentucky was slow.
,,,,,Seems to be helping my psoriasis,"Working to reduce m my body'd PH, helping to reduce the effects of my psoriasis, using twice a day first in the morning, last at night, mixing with a half a lemon and 10 oz of filtered water, seems to be helping"
,,,,,Five star,"I've found this product (Bob's Red Mill Bicarbonate of Soda or Soda Bicarb without Aluminum) to be just as I'd hoped.  I use it in a 3 to 1 (Pure Maple Syrup to Bob's Soda Bicarb) ration, respectively, as an anti-cancer holistic therapy approach to a recent rise in my (16 year) post-op PSA.  I don't have the results yet, as I'm only in my third week of use.  My next PSA lab test will tell the story.  (These tests should be conducted by the same laboratory, as differing labs employ different reagents and the results may vary to some degree.)<br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0041CKRJC"">Bob'Red Mill Aluminum-Free Baking Soda - 16 oz Bundle of 4</a><br /><br />This product is mixed with the maple syrup, heated and stirred in a LARGE pot (when mixed, the two react and create an initial rapidly expanding and foaming mixture which soon 'settles down') for five minutes, not to exceed 120 degrees farenheit.  The mixture will not remain as a homogeneous mixture; it will separate and must be stirred with each use.*  The goal is to raise one's systemic pH to above 7.  I've been keeping mine at 8 to 9.  Avoid use of sugar, white bread, meat and alcohol during therapy.  One may check several testimonials on the internet by searching for ""Maple Syrup Soda Bicarb therapy"".  My height is 5' 10; weight 164 lbs.  I average 2 1/2 tablespoons of this mixture morning and evening (before breakfast and after dinner).<br />  *Best to use a funnel and pour the heated/stirred mixture into a clean plastic milk bottle.  This makes re-mixing by shaking easier.<br /><br />I measure my pH at least twice daily, prior to taking each dose, using the Urine test strips purchased through Amazon made by Phinex**.  These strips will also measure one's pH by testing saliva.  (Probably more accurate at the moment tested - as the urine may have accumulated over a period of hours; a combination of high pH and, possibly a current acetic pH level.  The goal is to maintain an alkaline pH level.<br /><br />**See: [...]<br /><br />The author is NOT a member of the medical profession.  This account is not to be interpreted as a recommendation to engage in the therapy described, nor to imply its efficacy as a treatment for any disease.  One must decide for one's self upon any course of action to be taken with regard to addressing any medical condition."
,,,,,It's Baking Soda,"Okay so I bought this product and then had to laugh upon further research discovering that ALL baking soda is aluminum free.  It's baking POWDER that has aluminum in it.  The cheapest baking soda you can find is still aluminum free.  It's still good baking soda though, and kudos to the Bob's Red Mill marketing department.  You guys are geniuses."
,,,,,Love Bob's Red Mill Products,I really like Bob's Red Mill products. This item came promptly and is perfect for my baking needs. I totally recommend it!
,,,,,"fast shipping, great price.","I got this product for consumption, I took some of the store bought baking soda and did not know it is loaded with aluminum, so glad I was able to find this product thru amazon, and after reading all the positive reviews I got it and started taking some with a glass of water, great product,fast delivery,great price, very happy with my purchase."
,,,,,NEWSFLASH,"I just called Bob's Red Mill customer service (just do a G search for the company, their customer service number is under ""contact us"" on their site), and I was annoyed to learn that NONE OF BOB'S RED MILL BAKING SODA CONTAINS ALUMINUM. I've been paying $10-15 (with shipping) for this magical 'aluminum free' baking soda only to learn that the Bob's Red Mill 'premium baking soda' at my local grocery is the same exact thing. Call for yourself if you don't believe me. Ugh."
,,,,,Aluminum Free versus Natural Bob's Red Mill Baking Soda,"I just called Bob's Red Mill and talked to a representative there.  I was told that the packaging has been changed and no longer states ""aluminum free"" but ""natural"".  It would be helpful if Amazon clearly stated that the packaging has been changed by Bob's Red Mill so that one will not be ordering Bob's Red Mill Aluminum Free Baking Soda when this is no longer an item.  It would save wasted time by customers who are trying to rectify  what was sent when it appears that a name change took place.  It would also spare vendors from receiving less than excellent reviews."
,,,,,Peace of mind!,"All I can say, is that it give me peace of mind, knowing that I am not ingesting aluminum!<br />Can't tell any difference...same taste as the regular Arm & Hammer."
,,,,,the item is great  shipping was not,This is a wonderful product...but it comes in a paper bag  which is easy to puncture and when you ship it in a box with no bubble wrap it slides around a lot and you start to get leakage of the product....powder everywhere.  I would order it again if I was sure it would be packaged right so it wouldn't be sliding around in the box.
,,,,,"Great product, wished they sold it in local supermarkets","Great product and nice taste, glad they sell it online, not sure where to buy it in the local supermarket, it was a decent price, $2.11, I just thought that the shipping fee of $4.99 seemed high, but the product seems great!"
,,,,,disapointed,I was very unhappy when this package arrived at my workplace. The bags were not wrapped for shiping and was damage in route.  When I opened the box the baking soda was spiling all over the place.  I could not identify where the many holes were and did not have acess to a container to put them in so I threw it away.  I made a mess all over the place  What a waste.  I will not be ordering from this company again.
,,,,,Real salt,Real salt is good and good for you. Doesnt take much to flavor foods with this product. Try it for yourself today...
,,,,,Just o.k.,"Purchased three pounds.  Arrived well packaged.  Am trying to find a replacement roaster of this blend.  This is good, but not great...we'll keep on looking."
,,,,,Great Coffee,"This is the best coffee I've ever tasted, and at a reasonable price. Outstanding Coffee ! Thanks, Coffee Bean Direct."
,,,,,Like a glass of a great wine.,This coffee has a taste so good and so distinctive. Great aftertaste and low acid are welcome additions to it. The best I have ever bought on Amazon
,,,,,Very Disappointed,"What constitutes a good coffee is rather subjective. You can read countless reviews about it, but you don't know until you've tried it for yourself.  Having enjoyed peaberry coffee (I think the spherical shape results in better roasting) from many different parts of the world , I gave this a shot based on the positive reviews posted and the great price.  Boy, was I disappointed!  The beans are light/medium in roast, has a mild subdued smell.  The beans looked dry, but this is not uncommon for light roasts.  I made a fine grind of the beans, and brewed it in a press. Sad to say, it was the most disappointing cup of coffee I have had in a long time.  The flavor was stale, without any fruity characteristic of peaberries, and reminded me of a cheap cup of joe from a dirty diner.  The worst part is I am stuck with 3 lbs of terrible coffee that cannot be returned (Amazon does not accept return of food items)."
,,,,,Great for espresso,"These beans are my favorite for making espresso.  I get the most amazing crema from them, especially when I grind them frozen and store them in the freezer.  We have tried quite a few different kinds of beans, but we stopped looking after we found this one.  Using a Baby Gaggia espresso machine."
,,,,,Good Flavor but dry beans,"My reason for the low rating is that there was no ""use by"" date on the bag, making it difficult to know if the beans were old and not well cared for or if that's just the way Tanzanian peaberry beans roast up.  Not sure how a manufacturer gets away without putting a date on their products, but this supplier has found some way to get around it.  The coffee does taste good, although a hint of staleness exists, but the beans are totally dry: no oil, no moisture is present when they are ground.  I've enjoyed peaberry coffees from Hawaii for years, peaberries are the best of the best beans.  I've also come to enjoy African coffees for their full yet mild taste. So, to find peaberry coffee from Tanzania at such a great price was too much to pass up.  I expect to finish up the coffee I've purchased, but probably wouldn't buy it again or buy any coffee from this supplier since I have no assurance of its freshness."
,,,,,The best I bought on Amazon so far.,"I agree with one of the previous posts - coffee is a matter of personal taste. My wife and I really liked this coffee, it was fresh and flavorful. If you like dark roasts, don't buy this one, it is definitely not dark. The flavor is very distinct and pleasant, as opposed to some Kuna and Blue Mountain blends we have tried before."
,,,,,Truly AWFUL!,"I rarely post a product review, but I feel that I would be irresponsible as a consumer if I did not comment on the Tanzania Peaberry whole coffee beans. I had high hopes when purchasing this coffee and I did my best to tolerate them. To illustrate, I have consumed almost one whole bag of the three, but will have to dump the other two in the trash! The beans are stale, dry, over-roasted, with little flavor. Even loading up the coffee with sugar does not seem to help! I resolved that this morning would be my last cup! I will have to resort to buying the Eight O'Clock brand at my local grocery store. I even briefly considered giving the two unopened bags to a friend, but decided that it wasn't worth alienating him! Coffee Bean Direct, you need to do better, MUCH better..."
,,,,,Too dark,"The coffee was not stale as some have had, but the roast is too dark for a bean such as this.  I believe a better product could be had with the same beans."
,,,,,Kind of bland,"We had found some other peaberry coffee previously which had a really interesting, rich flavor to us.  For some reason, this brand just tasted flat to us by comparison.  The search for the perfect peaberry coffee continues..."
,,,,,Great cup o Jo!,"I purchased this coffee because my subscription Hawaiian Peaberry coffee was wiped out due to unusual weather and insects in Hawaii.  While these peaberry beans are smaller than the Kona, they have a much more full bodied taste.  There were ""hints"" of cocoa bean and something else I couldn't put my finger on.  It's also about $50 less that what I pay for the Kona coffee!  Gotta love it!"
,,,,,Good price for a good coffee,"I've drunk whole-bean Tanzanian peaberry for about 20 years.  My first source was the large national retailer and wholesaler Green Mountain, which roasted their Tanzanian peaberry light to medium.  Although the beans made good coffee, Green Mountain's price eventually became higher than I thought reasonable.  An internet seach led me to a small family-owned and family-operated roaster in Tennessee.  Their beans were also light to medium and, thus, had a dry appearance.  That level of roasting was to my liking because the beans retain more caffeine, and the natural flavor of the coffee is more apparent than with darker roasts.  When the Tennessee roaster's computer system crashed and online sales were temporarily suspended, I did another internet search and found Amazon's Tanzanian peaberry roasted by Coffee Bean Direct.  It has essentially the same good taste as the Tanzanian peaberry from the Tennessee roaster, and the price is lower.  I'm totally satisfied with the beans roasted by Coffee Bean Direct, and the shipping by Amazon is quick enough that buying three pounds at a time allows me to place my next order before the current one runs out."
,,,,,Beautiful Coffee,"I was in love from the moment I opened a bag and took the first whiff.  However, it did take me a while to figure out the right brewing method, because I found it was much easier to ""scald.""  Might be just me though.  First I boil the water, but whereas usually I just let it sit there for about a minute to cool, here I actually poured it into a pot and let it sit for about 2 or 3 minutes.  Then I grind the beans medium-coarse (it smells heavenly) and 2 tablespoons into the french press it goes.  Pour the water in, and I let it sit for a bit longer than usual, too (still hot though).  I find that it has a very nice... sort of crunchy, hard caramelized sugar finish to it, kind of tastes like the top of a cr&egrave;me brulee.  Delicious.  I drink it black."
,,,,,Torn between four & five stars,"This is really good coffee. Good enough to make me buy a burr grinder to grind it to the fineness I like without having to hawk watch the old bladed one. I've always liked peaberry, generally speaking and this one is a really, really nice peaberry. Full flavor, low acid, smooth. Kinda luscious actually.<br />The only reason I didn't go to five stars is that I have had a better peaberry but it was nowhere near this price. I hope this price stays where it is."
,,,,,Royal Canin--Not the crown jewels of dog food,"I tried this pricey dog food for my Australian shepherd on the advice of a friend who has a  small dog does that does very well on one of their foods geared for toy dogs.  First of all, making a decision on what food to buy is confusing.  They have many breed specific foods and to look at all the bags is exhausting.  With the help of a sales clerk I picked the Medium Breed adult. My dog, at first did like the food very much but I felt he was overwhelmed by the amount of food I had to feed to maintain his caloric need and gradually he lost interest in eating it.  The ingredients list was pretty standard but did have nice levels of antioxidants and omega oils.  Certainly this was not worth the price tag."
,,,,,Great tasting tea.,"We usually have fresh lemon grass tea at our local Zen center. It is extremely easy to make, put a few blades of lemon grass in a pot to steep and you will get a fantastic tasting tea.<br /><br />This tea is here is a fine replacement for when you cannot get fresh lemon grass. Lemon grass has many health benefits. It is said to detoxify the liver and can lower uric acid levels, this is important if you have gout.<br /><br />Because you get such a large quantity here on Amazon it should last you quite a while. Caffeine free and light it makes a very refreshing afternoon tea.<br /><br />Give it a try!<br /><br />Thank you for reading my review."
,,,,,Relaxing and Delicious,I have a lemongrass plant in my yard. I make tea from it but I wanted convenient tea bags to take to work or drink whenever I wanted. The tea from this box tastes exactly the same. It is some of the best tea I have ever tasted. I prefer to drink it hot but it can be made cold. It is such a relaxing beverage. I can drink it before bed because it has no caffeine. I highly recommend this tea.
,,,,,"Good value, but not a great taste.","Bought this product to give to a family member who lives cross country and is going thru treatment for cancer.  Lemongrass tea is supposed to help with side-effects of radiation and chemotherapy. I tried it as well.  Have had other products containing lemongrass tea that tasted better.  Still, good value for the price and could probably be mixed with other teas to improve taste."
,,,,,Good flavor,"This is a good tea that has a nice flavor. My only complaint is that for a rich tea, you have to use extra tea bags. This is sold in bulk which helps off set the price for using more tea bags."
,,,,,Ridiculously Expensive!!,"A pack of 18 on any of Horizon's flavors, cost about $15.00 this is RIDICULOUSLY EXPENSIVE!! But the product itself is EXCELLENT!!"
,,,,,Great packaging.  Decent price.  OK expiration date.,"These individually packed milk is great for on-the-road.  Does not need to be stored in the frig.  This item came in 6 packs of 3.  Then shipped in its original box and then another Amazon box over it.  The content was securely packed and I was not worried that the milk got 'dirty' during shipping.  The price is the same as in local grocery store but shipping to the house saved me from dragging them from the store while my toddler is jumping up and down the store aisle. The only reason that I did not give it 5 stars is because of the expiration date.  It is Mar 2012 which is not too far away.  I just bought one from Target(because I forgot to bring one and my toddler was restless) and it has an expiration date of Sept 2012.  Overall, I would still recommend to buy from Amazon."
,,,,,"Horizon Organic Plain Organic Milk, 8-Ounce Aseptic Cartons (Pack of 18)","Regular Reduced fat milk from Horizon received slightly over a month away from the expiration date. My intention was to buy Whole milk but the product description is confusing. I sent an email to the customer support - no response, after 3 weeks I checked and found that they made the picture larger (good) but left the product description without change.<br />As for me, it is crazy expensive shipping while I can get same Fat free or Reduced fat milk at StopNShop or Market Basket. The difficult thing is to find whole milk. Funny that Whole milk as natural product became unpopular. I guess too many people are concerned about becoming overweight:)"
,,,,,Horizon aspetic plain organic milk cartons,I love milk & only organic milk & Horizon is my favorite & these little cartons are great for on the go if not opened can be does not spoil long as not opened great for on the go & packing for a trip
,,,,,Great on the go milk,"I bought this for a trip and it was so wonderful that I'm planning to buy more. It's a good way to keep your kids well fed with good quality organic milk, even if you are not home."
,,,,,"Ok, but expensive","It's the standard Horizon milk, in small packages that you don't have to refrigerate.<br /><br />The only reason I buy this is I bake, and I hate being halfway through a recipe and discovering I'm out of milk. With these packages, I throw it in the back of the cupboard, and it's there when I need it. Obviously, I use fresh when I have it!<br /><br />I suppose the main market for this is kid's lunches, where you don't want to worry about spoilage. It would be fine for that, although it's about the most expensive way to buy milk (and the price of for this today is twice what I paid, and is currently twice that from other sellers on Amazon, so check around!)<br /><br />They also show reduced fat milk, but shipped me the low-fat."
,,,,,blue zots,I still like cherry the best but the blue zotz are good. The turn your tounge blue so watch out for that.
,,,,,EXCELLENT Herbal Tea!,"I love this product. Tazo has produced a mild, yet sweet and spicy tea that I can only call magic. Sweet Cinnamon Spice has a flavor all on it's own, and I highly recommend it for adventurous spice tea drinkers looking for that perfect balance."
,,,,,For licorice lovers only,"Once again I find myself trying to like Tazo herbal teas, but they keep putting licorice in teas where is just doesn't seem to belong, to me anyway.  This is another example where I expected a lovely flavored tea and the licorice flavor is so strong, it's just about all I can taste.  I guess I'll just give up on Tazo - who ever blends all their teas has radically different taste buds than mine!"
,,,,,If you like cinnamon!,"Delicious, flavorful tea.  A must for cinnamon lovers.  It also has a pleasant sweetness that even those of us who don't use sweeteners can enjoy. Wonderful as a hot drink, but I especially like it as a cold drink."
,,,,,This tea shouldn't be so hard to find!,I love this tea and I hate that it is so hard to find! I am so glad it is available on Amazon!
,,,,,Gotta love this tea,"This tea is perfect for me. I have many food allergies and associated diet restrictions, so I cannot have regular tea and many herbal teas. This is a good tasting alternative to plain chamomile, which was previously my only option for tea. I love it! It's hard to find at stores, and was previously sold out here, so I'm glad to see it's back."
,,,,,Very disappointing,"This tea was not what I expected.  I love cinnamon tea and was very disappointed with this product.  The tea does not have a strong cinnamon flavor which I enjoy.  This tea has a stronger Rooibos flavor than cinnamon flavor.  Furthermore, I found that the product description does not give a full list of the tea's ingredients.<br /><br />The ingredients listed on the box include:  Cinnamon, Licorice Root, Orange Peel, Indian Sarsaparilla, Chicory Root, Rooibos, Natural Flavors, Star Anise, Almond Extract and Locorice Extract"
,,,,,Tasteful Tazo Tea,"Tazo Sweet Cinnamon Spice Tea is a very tasteful tea with no unpleasant after taste. I am not sure what a person can say about tea, but this flavor is one of the best I have ever had. It makes great hot tea or iced tea. It's pleasant flavor is a treat all by itself and is excellent without any sweetener.<br /><br />Some teas leave a bitter or strange after taste but this tea does not. Every cup is very special. Even if you leave the tea bag in your cup for a long time, it never gets bitter. Wonderful product!<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000E1588O"">Tazo Sweet Cinnamon Spice Herbal Infusion Tea, Caffeine Free, 20-Count Tea Bags (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,Super Delicious,I tried this first in a sampler pack and was immediately hooked. I put a bit of sugar and honey in it and at that point its basically like drinking a cinnamon roll.
,,,,,Sweet tea,"I had ordered this tea, as I have been on a cinnamon kick.  I enjoy it for it's smooth cinnamon flavor.  I shared it with my friends, and they have made all sorts of positive comments on it.  I will probably be ordering more, even though I thought it would be a long time, having to order a case of it.  Thanks, Amazon and Tazo."
,,,,,"Despite the reviews here, I think most people would agree with me.","Wow, very weird taste.  I typically like all the ingredients, but this mix just tastes wrong.  It's somewhat similar to sarsaparilla tea, but with a licorice aftertaste.  It isn't so bad that I couldn't finish the first cup, but not my cup of tea."
,,,,,Pigs ear slices,Our small family member loves these slivers every morning. He sits and waits to get one. These are just the right size for him. Thank you for giving us a great produce. Will order again.
,,,,,"delicious canned pink salmon ,no salt is good for health","I ordered it 2 times and never had a problem like the reviewer above and I gonna compare it with my fav brand"" Crown Prince"" later then i 'll order it again . Delicious for making ""A TROPICAL FISH SOUP"" and more."
,,,,,2nd ORDER went awry,"Well I bought this item before and enjoyed it immensely. Pink Salmon is very good for you.<br /><br />This time I ordered again, received ALBACORE TUNA INSTEAD OF PINK SALMON. AMAZON DOES NOT DO RETURNS ON GROCERIES SUCH AS THESE, EVEN IF NOT OPENED THAT I CAN SEE. I sent personally an email to Raincoast Trading Company based in Canada, also left a phone message as well. Delayed response, but finally got emails and they were courteous but they redirected me to try help center to get credit and get the correct item. Gone through hoops in the help center of Amazon to no avail. Until I found the Toll Free Amazon phone number, Amazon LLC confirmed they can not accept the return, but will send the correct item promptly. We shall see, awaiting a replacement item.<br />A minor complaint they are smaller can sizes than the normal pink salmon I am used to ordering.<br />Anyone want some tuna? O well.<br /><br />P.S. Updated  review Sept 30th 2009, I finally got the ordered item, partly because the Amazon rep corrected it when I called in and sent it fast! BTW, it cost me a Toll Call to Canada to the company without a prompt reply. That just added insult to injury. Well I was able to order from a different merchant through Amazon. Thank you Amazon for coming through :)"
,,,,,no smell extract,"I purchased this product to lure black bear to the bait pile. The product has no sweet smell as one would expect. I have asked for a refund or exchange from the supplier, no response."
,,,,,Great Deal,Ordered these seeds for a recipe that I got from my grandmother. Seeds came very quickly and well packaged. Much cheaper than buying all those small bottles at the grocery store. Would definatly use this company again.
,,,,,Amazing stuff!,"I grew up in upstate NY where this stuff was born. It is pretty much a regional favorite that just hasn't caught on yet - and aside from here, upstate NY is the only place to get it. What you do is use the Spiedie sauce to marinate cubes of chicken overnight, then just grill them up, slide 'em on a soft italian roll and add some mayo. Bam! Good eats! I use this stuff at home in the DC area and I would highly recommend the marinade to anyone looking for a something different in their chicken!"
,,,,,Yummy,I love this stuff.  My dad brought some home from his home town in New York.  Love it.  Great marinade.  We skewer beef or moose cubes after letting them sit in marinade.  Love it!
,,,,,Two Favorite Food Groups,"I love chipotle. Back here in MA when I live now, it was years before you could find any products with chipotle. Things are better now, but I still have to fetch chipotle things in CA. And I was so ticked off when TSA would not let me take this stuff on the plane. So I have been forced to order this stuff online for years. Of all my sauces though this one is my go to favorite. And it is the roasted garlic-it is a real sauce changer. It adds a complexity to the sauce that is really just different. But I love roasted garlic too. So the best of two worlds combined. I keep other hot sauces around for different ethnic foods, but when I eat hummus (which is a lot) this is the one I reach for in the fridge."
,,,,,Good Energy,"This energy drink has worked for me. I drink one in the morning for my drive to work, and one before I work out at night. Grape is OK, fruit punch is better."
,,,,,Crack for Kitties,Our cats just love this stuff.  They eat the Ultra Premium dry food and Ocean Fish canned food.  We've given them some of the other formulas and they'd slowly eat them but they won't leave the Ocean Fish alone.
,,,,,Catfood,Very Healthy ingredients..compared to store brands..My<br />cats love this..they are Fussy Eaters..so I think many<br />cats would love this food..Will Buy it again.
,,,,,Very good snack,"Tried this for the first time last night and really liked it , it had a great taste . Good for when you want something but do not want to ruin your diet . bought them in the grocer for 7.99 . I thought that was expensive ..Hopefully i can find them cheaper elsewhere"
,,,,,Tastes more like a green than an oolong,"Not bad.  This tea does not taste like an oolong tea.  I'm sure if they say it's oolong, then it probably is an oolong, but it really tastes more like a green tea.  It's also very mildly flavored.  I find it benefits from a longer brew time than recommended.  There's certainly no bitterness upon over brewing this tea as there would be with a black tea, and the slight floral flavor and fragrance seems to be enhanced rather than harmed by this.  The flower bloom is durable: I put an unfinished pot in the refrigerator overnight to try it as iced tea, and the flower survived perfectly well without disintegrating.  If anything, the tea benefited from the additional overnight brew.  Served cold, the flavor comes out even more if you're partial to iced tea.<br /><br />The flower arrangement upon brewing is pretty--nowhere near as pretty or as perfect as the pictures that Numi shows on their website, and it's as likely to bloom lopsided as it is to flower right side up.  Some of them even bloom upside down.  Don't expect perfection and you'll be pleased with it."
,,,,,Perfect for so many things,"A classic Pasta Amatriciana requires this beautiful and mild form of bacon, and as with every other product I have purchased from them, La Quercia has nailed Guanciale.<br /><br />A little guanciale, rendered a bit but still tender, some diced tomatoes, a little peccorino romano, a pinch of crushed red pepper, and you are done.  The guanciale is the star, and this guanciale really stands up.  Served with bucatini pasta, and you might as well be in Rome."
,,,,,Silken tofu,"Silken tofu is so versatile: creamy salad dressing, sauce, etc.  So glad I purchased it at Amazon.  The price was excellent, packing fine and delivery quick."
,,,,,Great product at a great price!,"I'm new to tofu, newly vegan, and was dismayed at the price of tofu in local health food stores and the scarcity of it in regular grocery stores. I was hesitant to purchase in bulk, but am so glad I did. I purchased both the soft and the firm versions, and it has been great in every recipe! I will definitely be ordering again!"
,,,,,Good!,Morinu Soft Tofu makes the best puddings. I also make vegan mayonaise and salad dressings with it. Works out great.
,,,,,Great product!,I love silken tofu and use it a lot to make smoothies for myself and my toddlers. This is good-quality silken tofu and I was happy with the price and convenience of having it delivered to my door. (It's hard to find in grocery stores around here!)
,,,,,nice tofu,The quality of Tofu is very good. But it is a little bit more soft than what I expected. I will try the firm version.
,,,,,CAN'T LIVE WITHOUT TOFU...,I am practicing a vegan diet and this is an excellent product with a very good shelf life. I also buy some tofu that you can keep in refrigerator (which cost me $0.99/ea + tax). But I like to take this one with me when I travel and just to have some on hand at home (in case I run out of refrigerated tofu). Excellent product!
,,,,,Mori-Nu Silken Tofu,"This tofu is so silky, my smoothie is the smoothest with this tofu!!  I also like that I can store the extra tofu in the cupboard until I open the package."
,,,,,Great tofu,I was really glad to find this tofu on Amazon. I eat tofu on a daily basis and this is one of the best there is. I will definitely be buying on a regular basis.
,,,,,Just what I wanted,"I have been looking for Morinu Soft Tofu, Silken. I was happy when I found that Amazon.com had it. I still don't know if I like it as well as the Firm. I have to try it a little longer."
,,,,,Mini is not mini,When I read the description of this it said mini - these are regular size.  Tastes great but my 86 year old mom wants the mini ones and I have not been able to find the smaller dine size ones.
,,,,,Hands-Down Favorite Treats,"Our two Shih Tzu pups love Ziggies more than any other treat. We have given them Ziggies from the time we brought them home four years ago and truly, nothing makes them happier than when they hear the wrappers crinkle on these treats.  We give them these special treats when we leave for work in the morning and/or before we head out for a while in the evening.  Often we just split one treat in half to share between the two.  Ziggies aren't always readily available to order in the bulk cube and we've gone to great lengths to find them to keep our pups happy and in constant supply because they really bring joy to their little faces.<br /><br />You can use them to stuff into the rubber Kong things but we don't use them that way - we did when they were little but stopped bothering after a few weeks."
,,,,,exactly what i ordered,the product was exactly what was described.our dog loves these treats and is given them daily.we will be reordering in no time..thank you
,,,,,my puppy loves this treat,"I thought it would be wonderful if amazon.com provide some ingredients info..so I googled it and here it is.<br /><br />The KONG Stuff'N Puppy Ziggies unique chewy formula creates a safe and reliable, healthy digestible treat that will not crack or splinter. This irresistible puppy treat is low in fat and calcium-enriched with essential proteins. A Ziggies-stuffed KONG lasts twice as long as the leading chew treat.<br /><br />*Perfect for use with the KONG Puppy, Puppy Binkie, or Puppy Activity Ball<br />*Freshens breath and cleans teeth<br />*Easy to digest<br />*Made in the USA<br />*Comes in two sizes: Small(for dogs 6-20 lbs), Large(for dogs 15lbs and up)<br /> Check our our Recipe Guide<br /><br />Ingredients:<br />Ground Wheat, Gelatinized Wheat Starch, Chicken Meal, Glycerin, Dextrose, Poultry Fat (preserved with Mixed Tocoperols), Propylene Glycol, Natural Poultry Flavor, Wheat Protein Isolate, Oat Fiber, Calcium Carbonate, Salt, Potassium Chloride, Lecithin, Sorbic Acid (a preservative), Titanium Dioxide, Dried Peas, Flax Seed, Dried Apple, Rosemary Extract.<br /><br />Guaranteed Analysis:<br />Crude Protein 12% minimu<br /> Crude Fat 6% minimum<br /> Crude Fiber 3% maximum<br /> Moisture 18% maximum<br /> Ash 4% maximum."
,,,,,NO RESPONSE!!!,"I got sent the wrong item, which happens i know.  I tried to contact the company multiple times with no response.  I finally had to contact amazon and they are returning the item for me..."
,,,,,Excellent Gift Set of Fine Green Tea,"I've been a connoisseur of fine tea for many years.  Yet, I can no longer afford to frequent the fine tea rooms and tea stores that I used to, which offered my favorite varieties and international brands.  Subsequently, I've had to settle for lessor quality brands sold in most major supermarkets.<br /><br />Knowing how much I enjoy superior tea, my daughter-in-law chose Bentley's Finest Royal Green Tea Collection Gift Set as a holiday gift.  I could not have been more pleased!  *I regret that I delayed writing this review. Yet, with Mother's Day approaching, I'm hoping for another gift set.<br /><br />Bentley's Royal Green Tea is a superb collection of fine tea which is equal in quality and taste to some of the world's best green tea I've enjoyed.  This elegantly wrapped gift-set offers 6 varieties of special blends of green tea and fruit blends, from exotic fruits to popular favorites, such as Mango or Raspberry.<br /><br />Each teabag is securely sealed in a beautifully designed packet, with an elegant artistic image representing the fruit which flavors that teabag.  Bentley's goes further by providing a sturdy wood-like case, designed with 6 separate sections, each section containing 6 teabags of one flavor.  This solid well-designed dark-green case holds a total of 36 individually wrapped tea bags in its six compartments; a case which aptly resembles a jewelry box for the true 'jewels' of exquisite fine teabags it holds.  Indeed, when you lift the firm lid on this elegant case of fine tea, you will know you have a treasure-chest of great varieties of fine green tea.<br /><br />I was especially impressed that each teabag was expertly measured and prepared to effect the perfect aroma and optimal taste for the average teacup.  No other green teabags comes close to the perfect brew one would expect from the finest loose tea sold in specialty tea stores and tea rooms.<br /><br />Whether you purchase Bentley's Finest Royal Green Tea Collection Gift Set as a gift, or for your personal use, you will not be disappointed by the suburb quality of this wonderful selection of fruit-flavored green tea.<br /><br />Maizie Lucille James<br />April 2, 2012"
,,,,,"Caused my normally ""iron"" kitty to vomit :(","My cat has an iron stomach. She can eat absolutely anything and everything and is always getting into my ""human"" food and has never thrown up. I gave her 2 of these treats and within 20 minutes, she was wheezing and throwing up all over my carpet. I didn't connect it at first but when I gave her the same treats the next day, exact same reaction!<br /><br />I have tried several different flavors of this same brand and she has had the same reaction! If you are trying these with your cat for the 1st time, only give them 1 of them and just wait to see how they react before you give them anymore."
,,,,,Both cats threw up for a long time,"Both of my cats (age 11) threw up for an extended period after eating just 3 of these. Into the trash they go (not the cats, the treats). Not sure what they were reacting to but thought it would be good to let other cat parents know the risk."
,,,,,This stuff is cat poison,My sweet little Persian looks like she is dying. She's been puking all night because of these treats. How has this item not been recalled?
,,,,,Temptations Vomiting,I have two cats. My big boy has eaten these and never had a problem...as a matter of fact he has never vomited or had a hair ball since I adopted him at 2 months. My girl cat throws up every time she eats this particular flavor. Since I treat them equally these are no longer purchased. I hate to see my girl sick so I just recommend you watch your cats after you give them these treats. If not a problem...carry on.
,,,,,Causes Vomitting!,"I've tried it with both my cats, several times. Every time they eat this, and other Whiskas Temptations products, they vomit within minutes.<br />They LOVE it, they WANT it, it's CHEAP but it makes them puke, so, I'd consider this a bad purchase."
,,,,,Causes Vomiting!!!!,"Both of my cats vomit from all Temptations treats, but especially the Hairball variety. One of my cats actually is getting hairballs from these treats when he didn't before. I've tried all of them, and minutes after they eat their treats they vomit. This doesn't happen with any other treats like Whisker Lickins or Pounce."
,,,,,Not safe for kittens!,"I don't want anyone to think this is an unfair review of the product, it's more of a warning from my own personal experience so others don't make a mistake.<br /><br />When I got my new kitten from the humane society they sent him home with a goodie bag that happened to include these treats. I started feeding them to him and he seemed to like it. Then I noticed he would vomit occasionally. It was only after closer inspection did I realize these treats are for cats 6 MONTHS AND OLDER. I'm sure there's a reason for this, they caused his vomiting. I switched to a different temptations medley and he hasn't vomited since. So keep in mind, there IS a reason they limit these to older cats, they really aren't kitten safe. I only wish my humane society realized this before sending them home with him. I can only imagine they feed these to all the cats in their care without reading the package."
,,,,,Throw up Treats,"I finally did the research on this temptation treats and I'm glad to see that my suspicions are correct. I have been buying this treats for my kitty for years and suspected them all along to be the cause of him vomiting. Ironically, I even bought the hairball ones to see if they would make him stop vomiting. Now is official, I stopped giving them to him as often, and then monitored him whenever I gave him any. It soon became clear to me that he only vomits whenever I give him this treats. Sometimes he would vomit within minutes, and other times he would vomit during the night or the next morning, but if I give him this treats, I'm sure to be cleaning up orangee throw up off my carpet soon after.  I think is a matter of allergy or sensitivity to one of the ingredients, and they probably don't do anything to other cats but I'm never buying this again for my kitty."
,,,,,Makes Some Cats Vomit,"You know, I was searching the Internet for the words ""temptations"" and ""vomit"" when I came across these reviews.  I was surprised to hear that I'm not the only one who has had problems with this product.  Within an hour of eating these treats my cat vomits for about 40 minutes.  I didn't realize it was the cause until the second time I fed them to her.  It's really bad because it doesn't cause the cat to throw up all at once.  It's like she can just vomit a little at a time and you're forced to follow her around cleaning up all the vomit ((or locking her in the bathroom (which is horrible))."
,,,,,Cats love them and they are healthy!,"We do pet adoptions and also run a shelter for cats. I personally own 7 cats!!! I have absolutely never had a problem with feeding these to any of my cats.<br /><br />They have NEVER vommited from this treat, I have a hard time believing this!!<br /><br />I do know that the recommended amt of treats is only 10.. I have never fed more then 10-12 at a time!<br /><br />At home I have adopted a persian and I often use the hairball treatments with her and they actually DO WORK!!!!! I give her the suggested doce of 10 treats at a time and they are very tasty. Since, I have never seen her gag from hairballs, not once!<br /><br />All of my cats come running when I open these treats. My favorites are the vitamins as well as the hairball and the regular plain I also love to feed them. They love them all!<br /><br />The ONLY other treats I feed usually are Pounce and Party Mix but Temptations are there favortires!<br /><br />I HAVE ABOUT 8 BAGS OF THESE IN MY CABINETS... Because I have a lot of treats!<br /><br />At the shelter I run, we keep all kinds of cats and kittens and we have about 35 right now and NONE have never had any problems with these treats to date. I am sorry that others have maybe had problems but these are the most tastiest and healthy treats available. I also love that they provide GREAT dental care and tarter control.<br /><br />Providing these treats I honestly feel that my vet bills will be less in the future with also providing treats that they absolutely LOVE!!!!<br /><br />My mom and I pay the vet bills for any sick cats, we love cats!!! So far we have been blessed with wonderful healthy strays and none have been diagnosed with feline aids or Leukemia and we do vaccinate and have them tested.<br /><br />Please give these treats a try, they are awesome! Oh and also buy the large bags because it is actually saving you lots of money from buying the smaller bags.. You get about 3x the ammount!"
,,,,,Vomiting Kitty,"Like many others on here, my cat was vomiting within minutes of eating these ""tasty"" treats. She really loves them, however they don't love her back. It took me about a week to put this product and my sick kitty together. Finally after a google search, I came across these reviews. I stopped giving her the treats and so far, my cat has been vomit free. Buyer beware, this might not happen with every cat, so it may be wise to start slow with this product to see how your pet will react and build up slowly. Back to her ""greenies"" I go!!"
,,,,,Worked perfectly for weeks so far,It is amazing to see the even split on reviews. I have a Ragdoll cat who was having the occasional hairball. He loves these treats and has only had one hairball since (shortly after starting these). I couldn't be happier with the product.<br /><br />I got them at Walmart. The current amazon seller seems to be a rip off.
,,,,,Helped my Cat,"Not only kept her clear, she put much needed weight on after diagnosed with a chronic illness she has beaten. I've read some of the other reviews. As a former Vet Technician I do ask, if your cat is vomiting please see your vet asap. Hairballs that are very bad can kill a cat."
,,,,,My Cats LOVE Them!!,"And they never vomit. They wolf them down, thought I think they are crunching. They haven't TOTALLY stopped their occasional hairball hacking, but it is rare. Perhaps they would completely solve it if I could AFFORD to give them to them all the time. Only problem with this product is $$$. I would love to buy it in a larger bag . . . if they just made one. If your cat's don't like 'em move on, but definately worth a try if you want a treat that also helps with hairballs."
,,,,,Bobby lives for these treats,"Bobby loves these treat so much and they work very well for hairballs. He has long hair and if he goes without these treats for a few days he is throwing up hairballs, and driving me crazy begging for his treats. I have been able to teach him to stay off of things by not giving him treats too. I  noticed that Bobby always chews them well so that may be the reason that some cats vomit."
,,,,,The ONLY product that helps my cat with hairballs,"My cat is very picky and this is the only hairball remedy that I can give him that he eats and it works!  I don't have a problem with him vomiting at all.  I give him about 8-10 treats per day (and you have to make sure that you are giving them on an empty stomach), and the hairballs pass through his system - he never spits them up.  I used to purchase them at the store, but they stopped carrying this specific type and only sell the hairball/tartar control combo ones now - my cat hates them.  So happy to find these online!"
,,,,,"Nice treat, make sure they CHEW them!","As with most cats I've read about here, both of mine gulp these down without even the slightest tooth mark in them.  This can make them vomit so my trick is to snap them in two so then they have to chew them because of the ragged edges.  I""m used to the snapping since I have Persians (they have smaller mouths than a regular Tom does) and these aren't hard to snap at all.  They love the taste of these although I'm not all that sure they really help with the furballs.  Does anything really help though?! :)  I do recommend these because of the great taste, but try snapping them in two if your cat has trouble vomiting after gulping his/her food."
,,,,,These are Fabulous!,"I was reminded of my mother's cat when I read the comments about vomiting. Mom's cat gulps the Whiskas Temptations WHOLE and resembles a Kirby vaccuum! If you inhaled your food, you would vomit too! With my kitties, it is an entirely different story - they love them, they chew them, they purr. These are not a dietary supplement, they are a TREAT. I even managed to train my eldest kitty to ""shake hands"" using Temptations. I will definately buy them, again and again."
,,,,,My Cats Love It!,"Not exactly sure whether it really mediate hairball issue because my short hair Russian Blue rarely vomits while my mixed medium hair toby vomits quite frequently, regardless of the treat. Nevertheless, my cats do love it greatly, always rushing to me whenever I grab it."
,,,,,Sick Cats,"I have fed my 2 cats these treats the last 2 days.  Within 5 minutes of eating them, they are both throwing up.  I will be going back to the Three Dog Bakery Treats.  Expensive but have never made my cats sick.  Why is the company not responding to so many bad reviews?"
,,,,,Cat lethargic and sick for two days,My one year old cat ate a few of these and seemed lethargic.  Two weeks later I gave him a large helping of these<br />and I thought he was going to die.  He laid around and would not eat or move for two days.  I will not feed him these<br />again.  Same thing happened to my parent's cat after eating the salmon variety.
,,,,,Health hazard for cats,"My sister gave her cats these and loved them, so I got them for my cats. Our 4 cats have been vomiting a lot lately, and we traced it back to these treats. Google whiskas temptations recall...they were recalled not too long ago and I don't know why they are still on shelves. Don't buy these... They will make your cat sick and who know what else it's doing to their internal system. Please keep your cats away from this product!"
,,,,,"Good product, good service","I received my cat's treats quickly and the product works very well. The best part is that the cats love it, so I don't have to force them to take their cure for hairballs!"
,,,,,Great treats!,"Just like the other reviewer, my cat wants to eat these instead of his actual meals! LOL He's truly addicted. I am glad they have this formula with the hairball control, they have helped out so much and he rarely gets them anymore!"
,,,,,My cat is addicted!!!!!  lol,"My 13 year old cat wants to skip meals....all he wants is Whiskas Temptations!  He particularly LOVES the ones for hairball control.  He will find the place that they are stored and either knock then off a table or come to me, put his paw on my hand and look me straight in the eye until I give him.  He likes nothing  better that these treats! Got a good deal for them on line...saved several dollars on 32 bags!!"
,,,,,Sugar Water?,"i've never written an amazon review before, but this product was so horrible i had to warn would be buyers; i can eat pretty much anything, but i had to empty out both bottles... it just tasted like colored sugar water (very thin), sickening sweet.. don't know if there was any onion flavoring.. the only reason i bought this is because i couldn't get ken's steakhouse vidalia onion dressing shipped in California.  So far, the worst product i have purchased on amazon.  Buyer beware, unless you like sugar water, then ""drink up""..blech."
,,,,,Great Vidalia Onion Dressing,Bought it first at Costco but they recently stopped stocking it. My daughter loves dipping her carrots in this dressing instead of ranch dressing.  Also great for salads.
,,,,,Fabulous salad dressing,"Fell in love with this dressing after trying and buying it at Costco.  They don't carry it anymore, so I am glad to find it here.  So much fuller tasting than average grocery store salad dressing brands.  Yes, it is sweet and a little tangy, kind of thick.  (We like it because it has no egg.)  We just don't seem to get tired of it.  Have not tried it as a marinade.  Thought I better add our review, since we appreciate the comments of others."
,,,,,Great taste,I like to baste this heavily over pork roast and serve extra on the side.  My family LOVES it!
,,,,,Absolutely delicious!!,"We love anything with onions and this certainly is a great product.Wonderfull flavor, sweet and tangy;delicious on so many things. We have tried this on plain chicken, omelets, and even hamburgers.Will be trying this on pork over the weekend. Great price; I hope this will always be available through Amazon."
,,,,,LOVE THIS SAUCE!,"Not sure what anyone else uses this sauce for, but we use it with our roast beef sandwiches and it's amazingly good. Also, I use it for my roasted vegetables or roasted potatoes. It's delicious as a coating with garlic powder, rice flour, and pepper. It is sweet, but not sickeningly so. We love it!"
,,,,,Great Salad Dressing,"Excellent product. I use it almost every night. Used to be available through Costco, but they no longer handle it.<br />I would recommend it to anyone."
,,,,,The best in the West,"One day my husband and I were at Costco.  They had the Oak Hill Farms Vidalia Onion Vinaigrette on the shelf.  I said ""wow"" this really looks good but I put it back on the shelf.  When we got to the check-out stand, there it was in the basket.  My husbands says, it did look good.  Now I need to tell you that my husband is ""not"" a salad person. But he decided to try this salad dressing.  By the end of the month we had 16 bottles of the salad dressing. Costco did not have it anymore so I would check on-line every day until it was available and I ordered 6 bottles.  Don't want my husband to run out of that dressing again.  That's my story and it is the truth"
,,,,,My favorite salad dressing,"This is the best salad dressing, delivered promptly and in quantities that will last a while.  No other Vidalia Onion dressing compares to that made by Oak Hill Farms.  Sometimes you can find it at Costco, but you can order it to your front door.  If they want even more orders, they can cut down their shipping costs."
,,,,,"All I can say is, ""Yum!""","Vidalia Onion dressing is one of my favorite salad dressings, and Oak Hill Farms beats the other brands hands down! A great flavor, and popular with my dinner guests. I highly recommend it!"
,,,,,Excellent As BBQ Kebob Marinade,"I used this Vidalia onion sauce as a BBQ kebob marinade. Try it by mixing it with 2 cubed pork necks, 2 medium onions (half rings) and 4-6oz of this onion sauce. Mix everything (pork neck cubes, onions and onion sauce) in the mixing bowl and leave it in covered in the fridge for 12 hours."
,,,,,Great for Pasta Salad,"I use this as my ""secret ingredient"" for pasta salad which is always a hit! I also use it in chicken, tuna and egg salad and have used it in deviled eggs too. I started using it also via Costco and was very disappointed when they stopped carrying it. I put in a request for them to start carrying it again and we'll see what happens... I'm just very happy that I can still find it somewhere!"
,,,,,vidalia onion,"We used to buy this item at Costo Warehouse, but they quit carrying it.<br />We really like Vidalia Onion  Vinaigreet and therefore looked for a place to buy it.<br />Thanks great product."
,,,,,Tasty!,Can't find this or anything like it in our stores anymore.  Good to know I can get it on here.
,,,,,Vidalia Onion Vinigrette,"This will be great with all that I use it for<br /> Thanks, Linda"
,,,,,Back to Nature Harvest Whole Wheats,"If you like Triscuit crackers, then this is the healthy version with the same great taste and texture. Amazingly there is not much of a price difference (12-9.5oz for 33.36 vs. 12-8.5 oz. for 29.83)to purchase the better quality cracker. If the coupon offer is in effect, then these crackers are also the price winner! The only disadvantage is since I think these are healthy, I eat more of them at one time than I would normally of the other brand. They are sooooo tasty w/ melted cheddar cheese on top or warmed crab dip. Enjoy!"
,,,,,Better than the competition!,"I first purchased these crackers because they have no soy in them.  My daughter is allergic to soy, and soy-free crackers are very hard to find.  I bought them, and to my amazement, my picky husband also loves them!  He prefers them to all other similar crackers.  I purchased a large number of boxes (which I keep hidden) as they tend to disappear rather quickly."
,,,,,"Good but too salty for a ""healthy"" cracker","I've bought three kinds of the Back to Nature crackers now, I'm so impressed by the brand. And with my food allergy problem, I was excited to find them. I normally get the rounds, which are terrific with my Manchego cheese.  So this time around I tried the crispy thins and the Harvest whole wheat. The Harvest whole wheat closely resembles triscuits.  A good thing.  However I'm disappointed they are so salty.  I would've strongly preferred less or no salt.  I'm perplexed about why a supposed healthy cracker would be so salty. So I won't be ordering this one again. Which is a bummer."
,,,,,highly recommended,"healthy, delicious, and great for food allergies! no soy, corn etc. Only contains wheat, safflower oil, and salt."
,,,,,Price nearly doubled in less than 2 months?,"I love these crackers but not the price change.<br /><br />At $29.00 for 12 boxes; ~$2.42 a box if you sign up for ""Subscribe and Save"" I was ecstatic. I most definitely signed up for ""Subscribe and Save"" delivery.<br /><br />Not yet 2 months later I learn the identical item now cost $55.00 for 12 boxes.<br /><br />Bait and switch?<br /><br />I think these crackers taste better than their clone parent the Triscuit. 12 boxes is just right for a two month period- I keep a couple boxes at work. Use them for bringing nibblies to gatherings and more importantly as a stable of my diet because I choose not to eat bread and I love food items with ingredient lists like this: Whole Wheat, Expeller-Pressed Oleic Safflower Oil, Sea Salt, Natural Tocopherols Added to Preserve Freshness.<br /><br />As a big city dweller who uses public trans (I don't own a car)I rely on Amazon for certain essential groceries. I pick them up at the UPS store on my walk home from the train stop. It's one of the main reasons I'm a ""Prime"" member.<br /><br />I'll need to cancel my ""Subscribe and Save"" for this item. I like to think Amazon wasn't going to send the next delivery without notifying me of the new price.<br /><br />I can get Triscuits anywhere for ~$4.50 a box, sometimes less. The Back To Nature cracker is now $4.59 a box.<br /><br />It's likely the pricing situation is out of their hands but I'm so disappointed!<br /><br />Looks like I'll be checking out the cracker selection at CostCo."
,,,,,Delicious and salty,It's very delicious and I love salty foods .. But I wish that contains olive oil instead of safflower oil :(
,,,,,Good crackers,"These taste just as good as Triscuits in my opinion.<br />I have not found them to be overly salty.<br />I buy these as a cheaper alternative.<br /><br />If you want to know the source of any of the ingredients, you should ask the company. Soy is a natural ingredient... I am not sure what the 1 star review is about."
,,,,,Back to Nature Harvest Whole Wheats Crackers,"Back to Nature Harvest Whole Wheats Crackers, 8.5-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 12) - My wife's all-time favorite crackers - only sporadically available at Acme supermarkets and perfectly delivered by the case by Amazon."
,,,,,These are so tasty!,"Excellent choice for a high fiber cracker.  These taste great and like other Back to Nature items, don't have all the undesirable ingredients you'd like to avoid if necessary. Whole wheat, safflower oil, salt and Vitamin E -- perfect."
,,,,,"Bit salty, but otherwise excellent.","I'm not a huge fan of salt, so take that warning with a grain of, well... you know.  For most people the salt on these is probably fine.  They stay crispy over long periods of storage, even after the package has been opened and split into tupperware containers, they're reasonably sturdy, they pair well with all but the saltiest cheeses (wouldn't put blues on them), they pair GREAT with unsalted pb... just a great all-around cracker to keep in the house.  They've become a staple of my diet and, unlike every other cracker I've bought in bulk, and there have been many, they haven't developed some weird off-flavor due to over-familiarization or the cracker becoming stale.  They still taste good, like a simple cracker.  I'll be ordering them again!"
,,,,,Very crunchy and tasty but not organic,"My family loves the taste of these.  They're a bit high in sodium for my liking and for the price, I wish they were organic.  I have purchased the Heart to Heart brand, but they taste much staler and have a strange aftertaste compared to these crackers.  Too bad, because Heart to Heart has half the sodium."
,,,,,Tasty no soy cracker,"Very closely resembles a Triscuit cracker...except there is no soy!  (And a bit lighter.)<br /><br />You will not be disappointed with the taste and texture, it is a quality cracker.<br /><br />Enjoy."
,,,,,Better than Triscuits :),"I love them.  My kids and I eat them a box at a time.  We have replaced chips (and other ""bad for you"" snacks) with these.  Just wish they were organic."
,,,,,tocopherol is often from soy,Does anyone realize tocopherol usually comes from soy? I'm still hunting for a cracker I don't have to make. Their website is unclear about it's source.
,,,,,WAY TWO  SWEET,"I WAS VERY EXCITED TO GET THIS THEN I HAD A CUP, I NEVER MADE IT THRU THE CUP...<br />IT IS SO SWEET IT IS SICKENING REALLY, NOW I HAVE TO FIND FAMILY TO PAWN THIS STUFF ONTO<br />AND CHRISTMAS IS A LONG WAY OFF...LOL"
,,,,,Excellent!,"My son has nut allergies and US made are not safe for him since early childhood...now 19...The British...Nestle Co. have made a treat for him...thrilled to have his favorite and in DARK, great...and quick service and delivery!"
,,,,,Top is loose and doesn't poor freely,"The O ring for the top does not seal properly with the pitcher and you have to tilt the pitcher more than other pitchers to get adequate flow.  This makes the top fall off and the potential for all the contents to spill out.  I just lift the top up a little when I poor to bypass this problem.  The glass is sturdy and the apparatus that holds it is sturdy.  I got some stuff in between the metal ring and glass, which looked terrible, but is easily disassembled to clean.  There is no stop for the screw so over tightening during reassembly could break the glass."
,,,,,"Good quality Pet food, PETA APPROVED!","My cats love the food, and it's on the HAPPY list of ""Companies that Don't Test on Animals"" linked through the PETA site, peta.org.  That is VERY reassuring."
,,,,,16 cats love it...,"I have 16 cats ranging from 1 to 11 yrs old and every single one of them likes this.  I have tried Wellness, Holistic, Avoderm, Chicken Soup for the..., Merck Homestyle, BG (Before Grain), California Natural, and Evangers with mixed results.  This is the first canned food that all of them will not only eat but eat all of it.  I've fed them the Chicken and Liver flavor and the Seafood flavor so far and they seem to like both equally.  I find it a bit more expensive than I had hoped it would be, but then again there is no waste and I consider that in itself a savings alone.  I'm a firm believer in better ingredients and less fillers and allergens make for less poop, less litter use, fewer trips to the vet and an overall healthier cat.<br /><br />UPDATE:  I have tried all the flavors on my cats and the chicken and liver seems to be the one they like the most.  They have now officially rejected all the other flavors including the seafood flavor that they originally liked.  I also wanted to add that this is a very STRONG smelling brand of cat food, almost overpowering when I open the cans at feeding time."
,,,,,Nice to find product thats safe,"Our older cat is having some health issues, which I ""suspect"" could have been caused by pet foods many of us buy in local stores. We've been on a mission to find a healthy pet food we could trust after all the pet food recalls. After going through way too many products trying to find one that did all it claimed to do, we found the PetGuard line of food. This one really does appear to be all it claims to be and our cats are thriving on it! Our older cat loves it and is acting more like a kitten than he's acted in years. Both of our cats fur is silky and smooth and they seem to have endless energy, not to mention they love this stuff! Our youngest cat has digestion problems and most cat foods give him horrible gas.. But not this cat food! He isn't having any digestion problems at all..<br />Both our cats love the ""fish,chicken & liver"" dinner but our older cat isn't crazy about the ""seafood savory dinner"". He'll eat it but much prefers the fish,chicken and liver.<br />From my point of view, the fish, chicken and liver dinner doesn't smell too bad, but the seafood savor dinner smells really bad!<br />One problem I have with the food I've purchased from Amazon is that every single can in the case has been dented. I've purchased 2 cases and it's been the same with both cases.. I've purchased this from other vendors and never received a dented can, so this seems to be an Amazon problem.. Not sure why, but some of the cans are really hard to open!<br />I'm relieved to finally find a food I'm not afraid to feed my pets.. I've read articles about this food that state the meat used in it is a grade that can be consumed by humans. That makes me feel much better about what my cats are eating.<br />UPDATE:<br />It's been about a year since we started using this and our older cat is doing very well on it. Amazon was out of stock once when I needed to reorder, so I purchased another organic brand. Not only did our older cat turn up his nose to the other brand, but so did our 2 other cats. They would not eat the other kind, so when Pet Guard was back in stock, I ordered another case and the cats were happy kitties! They all love this stuff.. I think it stinks, but apparently, that's part of the attraction for them."
,,,,,"Good value, cats don't like it","I really wanted this food to work, as it seems to have good ingredients for a decent price.  However, my cats, who are typically ravenous little mongrels, don't even bother to check it out when offered.  So much for saving a couple of bucks--now they eat Organix."
,,,,,So meaty-So good-So nutritious,I've been using this all natural cat food for a few years when I could afford it but didn't think to shop where I buy my books.  With free shipping I only wish Amazon offered a few more flavors.  Since many commercial cat foods are made with Grade D mest (not fit for human consumption) I am delighted to have this choice.
,,,,,NOTHING BUT THE BEST 4 MY CATS,I have found this cat food to be the purrfect choice for both my cat with IBD and my cat with Diabetes. Howard and Miss C are thriving on this diet of Turkey and brown rice and  enjoy it so much more than prescription diets. The price was great too for a premium cat food.
,,,,,cats love it,My cats love this food. They always lick every last morsel of it. I love it too because it is one of the best values for a high-quality canned food.
,,,,,"Cats seem to like this food, nice to have it delivered!","I have three cats... have had cats for years, this food smells better than most, my cats like it, the ingredients appear to be better than the average cat food. So far, so good! i'll continue to use it for my cats"
,,,,,Great quality food and my cats LOVE it.,"I've been on the hunt for high quality cat food that doesn't cost a fortune. After a lot of research at various sites Petguard was one on my list to try, so I ordered a case from amazon and couldn't be happier. 2/3 of my cats LOVE it, the 3rd cat is a dry food addict and I'm in the process of trying to convert her but it's slow going. Be warned though, this stuff smells terrible, opening a can and dishing it out is like being slapped in the face with a week old mackerel, but that's how cats like it.<br /><br />Bottom line this food is reasonably priced and high quality. It has low carbs, low ash/magnesium, high protein, real human grade meat with no by-products, the vitamins/minerals are chelated for better absorption and Petguard has stated they do not use BPA lined cans. Also, contrary to what the ingredient list here on Amazon says it does NOT contain ""Menadione Sodium Bisulfite"" or at least the case I ordered doesn't have any listed, so they must have stopped using it, which is a big plus."
,,,,,"Highest quality, delicious food for your cats!","My cats both LOVE this food.  I've had varying success with about 7 different kinds of canned food.  This one is a hit with both.  It's natural, mostly organic, doesn't have any junk or fillers, and I have peace of mind knowing that we're giving them high quality food from an ethical company.  Since they've been on this diet they are more active, alert and happy.  Their coats are so soft and shiny and they seem to be shedding less.  Cannot say how relieved I am to have finally found a food they like that is so good for them as well.  It is pricey but if you want to save on costly vet bills down the road due to illness caused by poor nutrition, this is the way to go."
,,,,,kittens will eat it as a last resort,"bought both the savory seafood and the chicken and wheat germ, as the kittens liked the fish, chicken and liver flavor.  They are not so fond of it, but will eat if there is nothing else.  Also, they will only eat it as soon as a can is opened, there is no hope of putting half a can in tupperware and feeding it to them later. Oh, yeah, and STINKY.  But a good product if your kitty likes the taste."
,,,,,Cat Loved it.. BUT....Their hair started to fall out.,Used for less then 2 months both cats fur began falling out bad.<br />Stopped using it & the cats fur is back to fine.<br />Back to feeding my cats Nature's Variety instinct.<br />I baught this PetGaurd product at Fairway Market not Amazon.<br />Will not use it again.
,,,,,5 cats - all love it! Great food for a good value.,"I have 5 cats on this food as well as the seafood. This is their favorite, but they will eat the seafood as well. My old gentleman, 16 this year, loves it, and is doing very well on it. Quality ingredients for a fair price. I do agree with the one reviewer who said the cans were all dented and hard to open. Mine have been the same with every shipment. Don't know if that's why the price is so good or not."
,,,,,as long as he likes it...,"i'm giving this a solid 5, because my old but healthy cat loves this stuff and it's wicked good for him, but i'll tell you right now that this stuff looks and smells quite gross; as long as i don't have to eat it, it's all good."
,,,,,"It's cat food, they eat it, seems pretty healthy","The cats like this stuff pretty well, for the health of our felines we keep them on an all-canned food diet. This is one of their favorite flavors, I will admit that sometimes you can see bits of fish bone in the can, but the food seems to be of high quality. I wish Amazon woudl carry the organic versions of petguard canned food for cats."
,,,,,"The cat likes it, I haven't tried it","What can I say? It's cat food but without stuff in it cats shouldn't be eating. It is her favorite flavor, but that depends on the cat."
,,,,,So far she loves it! But....,"I just got this and so far my finicky cat loves it!<br />One of my friends recommended I try this for my cat as she has allergies<br />that we think are food allergies and so far nothing else has helped.<br />Friend's cat no longer has allergies on this food and I hope the same for mine; only time will tell.<br /><br />Addendum:  She still loves it but for $20 plus in shipping which it now is, I'll be switching to something else."
,,,,,Not Tested on Animals,"My cats love the food, and it's referenced on the list of ""Companies that Don't Test on Animals"" through the PETA web site."
,,,,,It would be nice it they ate it,"I felt really good about being a good cat mommy and buying something of such quality for my sweeties... Too bad none of the would eat it, no matter what I did.<br /><br />Donated it to the local SPCA -- maybe a dog will eat it."
,,,,,great quality,"This is an excellent quality product. I have a Siberian Husky, a breed which loves fish. I have hard time finding fish in canned dog food, so I feed this food to my cat and dog and they both love it. It has rice flour but no rice in it. My cat doesn't like the foods with rice, but she loves this. Sky and Peaches highly recommend this food!"
,,,,,What happened to the price??,I used to order this product at 25 per box of 12 cans and now it turned into 50 dollars??? how did it double out of nowhere??
,,,,,Absolutely delicious coffee!,"I am a huge coffee drinker, and love the k-cups for making one cup quickly before leaving for work in the morning.  While there are many choices, I prefer a bold, strong coffee first thing in the morning.  Wolfgang Puck French Roast is absolutely delicious, strong and not at all bitter, and makes a great first cup of coffee.  I would highly recommend to all bold coffee drinkers!"
,,,,,YUMMY,We always drink Timmothy's or Emeril's. Thought we would try something different. Not too many decafs to choose from. We were pleasantly surprised that this had a great taste with a full bodied flavor. I like my coffee on the milder side so I can even get 2 cups from 1 Kcup.
,,,,,Good Stuff,Good subtle flavored coffee for the mid-afternoon pick me up. A bit of sweetness without being overdone. Wish it was available in whole bean as I like it stronger then the Keurig cup can make it.
,,,,,Delivers what was promises,"Wolfgang Puck's Chef's Reserve Colombian (Dark Roast) is basically what they said it will be. Dark roast, but not too strong. Acidity is on a low side, but with plenty of pleasant taste. At the same time you can drink this coffee black w/o the need for the sweetener and/or milk. This coffee is in European tradition and will please many people. I would recommend it after dinner, but not if you need a jolt to wake you up."
,,,,,"My mom said this was not as flavorful as other ""Extra Bolds""","This is the most USEFUL info you will ever need to know about K-Cups, and one that took me forever to discover:<br /><br />Bold/Extra Bold coffee in terms of k-cups does not mean that the coffee itself is stronger, it only means that they included more grind in the cups to provide you with a stronger coffee.<br /><br />There! Now you know.<br /><br />My mom goes for the Extra Bolds only because she has been addicted to caffeine for over 40 years now, and she's frugal and thinks this gives her more back for her buck (or rather mine, since I buy it for her).<br /><br />Unfortunately, out of all the Extra Bold k-cups she's tried, she claims that the Wolfgang Puck is the weakest tasting. She's tried it in both the medium & small serving sizes format, and both have produced less-than-full-flavor drinks.<br /><br />If you are looking for a rich, flavorful, strong-tasting coffee, try the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HKZZ7A"">Van Houtte Cafe Honduras Medium Roast, Extra Bold Coffee, 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>."
,,,,,"Weak, even on small cup setting",This coffee brews very weak - like a light roast.  W.P. Chef's reserve pods are just over half full.  Put pod on scale and it's 15% less coffee wgt than normal pods.  Stick with normal pods or extra bold if you like coffee that taste like coffee.
,,,,,Really Disappointed,"I wanted to like this coffee, I did. We've tried other Wolfgang Puck K-Cups and have been pleasantly surprised. This just did not impress us. Bitter aftertaste, and it has an almost sickeningly vanilla flavor. Smells great while brewing, but just does not live up to it in the cup. I'm really disappointed because I now have a box and a half of this product that we really do not want to drink! Great price though."
,,,,,Drink The Spirit of Aloha!,"I purchased these for my mom and she loves them!  She does not like bold coffee flavors, but is more into the sweet and more flavorful varieties.  This one combines the taste of the islands with a smooth, nutty flavor.  Amazon had a GREAT price on these and this is something that I can actually recommend!"
,,,,,"Great taste, lousy cup","This is a good decaf coffee, but I've never before had a k cup dump the contents into my cup. It's extremely irritating to deal with grounds in the cup and machine when deliberately choosing a system that avoids the mess."
,,,,,"If you want a flavored coffee, okay... but otherwise YUK",Warning: this is a STRONG flavor.<br /><br />I thought that this would be Blue Mountain-y... oh no. It is like... rum flavored or something. Yuk.
,,,,,A favorite at the office,I admit I don't usually drink decaf but this is a favorite in my office and I felt it deserved a good rating.
,,,,,Island Escape!,I tried this flavor within a variety pack and LOVED IT!  I usually add cream and sugar to my coffee.  With this k cup I added coconut creamer and found that I did not have to add any sugar!  It was so sweet and light and tasted just like a pina colada.  I absolutley love this k cup and am planning to sign up for subscribe and save on this one!
,,,,,Just Right and you will love it!,"This Wolfgang Puck coffee tasted great. The vanilla flavoring is just right. Some reviews said it was not so good, not enough flavoring, etc. Don't pay attention to the bad reviews posted on here. I have never posted for a product and I have tried many different k-cups. This is a good k-cup and don't hesitate to purchase this flavor because of the negative feedback. I almost hesitated and didn't buy it and then I figured I would give it a shot. It was worth it to pick the vanilla francaise flavor. You will enjoy it. It tastes better then other k cup vanilla flavors like folgers and van houtte flavor."
,,,,,"Good coffee, but lets clear up the flavors?","I saw the good reviews of this Jamaica Me Crazy coffee, but the reviewers all seem to wander around whether it has coconut, vanilla, caramel, rum or coffee liqueur flavorings.<br /><br />First off, I'm not getting any coconut from it at all.  Some vanilla, but it mostly tastes like coffee with baileys irish cream in it.<br /><br />In fact, after I drank a cup I had to go pick up my son from kindergarten and it occurred to me that some of the other parents might think I was drinking spiked coffee while we waited for the class to let out! :)<br /><br />But its good.  I recommend it to anyone who likes flavored coffee.  Not really anything else like it and I've tried about 20 different k-cup flavors."
,,,,,Not the best,"With so many choices now, I thought I woudl give this a try.<br />The Donut shop Decaf is by far my favorite and this one falls short."
,,,,,Very Smooth Not Acidic,"I used to do the subscribe and save with the Timothy's World Kona, but due to the fact that the price on Timothy's jumped so high, I went to Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed.  Pleasantly surprised, and I must say that I like this one much better than the Kona!  It seems much more smoother, but the taste still retains a nice warm mellow-bold flavor.  Great way to start the day!  Oh, and I love the name of this coffee ;)"
,,,,,Too Mild for Me,"I bought this because Amazon had DRASTICALLY increased the price on what I usually buy, so I thought I'd try something new.  I normally drink Coffee People Donut Shop, which is a nice, strong cup of coffee.  This was a little disappointing.  It's called a Medium Roast, but when I brew a large cup (my Keurig has 3 size options), it looks like strong tea - very light in color.  It makes a very weak cup of coffee.  When I brew the smallest cup possible, it's a tiny bit better, but I prefer a large cup of strong coffee.  Think I may try the Rodeo Drive or Sorrento, but this one is just too weak and light for me.  (Oddly enough, the first time I tried Donut Shop, I thought it was too strong...as I had been used to weaker coffees.  Now that I've started drinking the stronger varieties, it's hard to go back to ""brown water."")"
,,,,,A must have on my carousel!,"I wasn't expecting this one to be so rich or full!  Yet it has a smoky finish that is typical of a French roast but doesn't taste burnt.  I think alot of times a French roast tastes thin and yet bitter instead of full and smoky, but not this one! Very pleased with it and will definitely order again.  If you like a stronger cup in the morning, without being bitter, give this one a try."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Columbian,Very good tasteing product but I need to use it the smallist setting on my B-60 to really enjoy the depth.
,,,,,Delectable!,"I am still waiting for Peets to come out with Kcups, but in the meantime, the Wolfgang Puck's coffees are filling the bill. I really like Sorrento AND Rodeo Drive---smooth and full bodied.<br />JS"
,,,,,A strong yet bitter brew,"As a French Roast fan, I bought this brand of K-cup with high expectations, considering the name attached to it. I was disappointed. It has a hearty aroma and full-bodied flavor but leaves a bitter aftertaste.<br /><br />If you're a lover of the more robust roasts, I would recommend trying the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002L41Y8A"">Coffee People Kona Blend Island Style, Extra Bold K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 50)</a> instead. It is a smooth blend with none of the bitterness that delivers that kick you're likely looking for."
,,,,,Definitely a good breakfast indeed!,"Not too bold, not too weak...not bitter.  Good way to start if your not into the real strong coffees.  My husband and I have added the Wolfgang Puck ""Breakfast in Bed"" line and the ""Rodeo Drive"" flavors to our buying ritual."
,,,,,Decent,"This flavored K-Cup isn't out of this world, but isn't horrible. In my opinion, it's way more flavorful than the Wolfgang Puck Hazelnut K-Cup. We love flavored coffee in our house, and so I would go with this one again. Worth a try."
,,,,,Milder than expected,"Never had Hawaiian Hazelnut before so I didn't know what to expect, but it turns out it's pretty good, not as flavored as say DD, but nonetheless pretty good. I have it on subscription now along with the German Chocolate Cake, another one of my favorite flavored K-cups."
,,,,,Breakfast in Bed Coffee K-Cups,"This has made me into a coffee lover!  Very  mild and easy on the stomach, but with a great flavor.  Love it!"
,,,,,Enjoyable cup of coffee,"Nice, light cup of coffee. Definitely not a bold brew but it's smooth and gentle on the stomach.....good for those mornings when you over did it the night before. Would buy again."
,,,,,Smooth and light breakfast coffee,This is a very balanced and smooth light coffee great for a first cup of the day.
,,,,,Wonderful coffee!,This is a great cup of hazelnut coffee; smooth and balanced with no chemical aftertaste.  My husband and I like it so much that we've ordered it twice directly from the Keurig manufacturer.  SO GLAD that it's now available on Amazon through subscribe and save!
,,,,,IT IS NOT DECAF PEOPLE!!!,"I'm amazed how many are being so easily fooled.  What you're seeing is a GENERIC ingredient list that covers multiple coffees.  What it is saying, based on the photo I see above, is that IF the coffee type you have is straight coffee, then all it contains is 100% arabica coffee...  But IF what you are drinking is a FLAVORED coffee, then the ingredients in it are Arabica coffee, and flavorings...  But IF what you're drinking is a DECAF variety, then it contains Arabica coffee that has been decaffeinated with Ethyl Acetate, as is standard.<br /><br />So if you're not holding a decaf variety, then there is no decaffeinated beans!  It is nothing more than generic catch all ingredients that apply to whichever variety you happen to be looking at.<br /><br />Sheesh.  Think people! lol"
,,,,,FLAVORED COFFEE??,Nowhere in the description does it mention anything about this coffee being flavored. I'm still not sure what flavor it is. Some type of nut. I wrongly assumed that Jamaican coffee would be similar to the Blue Mountain coffee which Jamaica is known for! How silly of me to assume that! I hate flavored coffees so I was so disappointed to now own 2 boxes of such a horrible coffee. It only says flavored very small on the box so I didn't notice it before I opened it. Hopefully I can pawn it off to visitors and buy some regular bold coffee-flavored coffee for myself!
,,,,,misleading,No where in the description does it mention that this is a flavored coffee.  By the name I thought it was a Jamaican Blue Mountain blend but its flavored with a weak tasting hazelnut.  Not very good
,,,,,Non-Flavored coffee drinkers beware!,I was in a hurry and did not read the reviews...I trusted amazon's description and it did NOT indicate it was flavored coffee and that it was NOT Jamaican...it is very lightly flavored with vanilla so it isnt too bad. I feel cheated.
,,,,,Heavily Flavored - Not For Us,"I thought this was a Jamaican blend or roast, but turns out it's simply a heavily flavored coffee.  The flavor tastes artificial - like fake maple syrup flavoring.  We have three coffee drinkers in our house and none of us could get past the first few sips.  Now I have to find a home for the rest of it so it doesn't go to waste."
,,,,,"Not Jamaican at all, just another sweet, flavored coffee!","I wish Amazon would require any coffee with sweet artificial flavorings to be plainly identified as such.  Then folks who really dislike coffee adulterated this way could avoid getting another disappointing flavored cup of coffee.  This stuff tastes the way I imagine Newman's Own Extra Bold coffee would taste with curdled, spoiled Bailey's Irish Cream dumped in it - nasty.  Shudder!!!"
,,,,,Great name but I didn't care for it,I drink about 4 to 6 cups of coffee every morning - I'm always looking for a new flavor - so I gave it a try - I drank it but I would not order again. steve
,,,,,"Good, but not my favorite","I like strong, but smooth coffee. This coffee is strong enough, but a little on the bitter side for my taste. I have tasted other strong blends that I like much more. My husband, who likes a medium roast coffee, is OK with this coffee, but it not his favorite either. I would only recommend it to someone who likes a little tang in their morning cup of joe."
,,,,,These K Cups Have ISSUES - Coffee Not Bad,"First of all, I have owned a Keurig for about 4 years now, and I've tried lot's of coffee.  During that time, I have had an occasion k cup that didn't function correctly and loaded the brew with grounds.<br /><br />I probably should have returned these before I bothered to open the second box.  Since I drink my coffee from a thermal cup, I can tell you that taking that last drink to find your mouth full of coffee grounds stinks.<br /><br />I have had to throw out at least 6 cups of coffee.  Its a bit like Russian Roulette, and I've started straining it after I brew it.<br /><br />I know that its not my brewer because it is not happening with the Green Mountain, Timothy's or Tully's that I also use.  The good cups are a bit weak for my taste, but the flavor is ok.  Definitely prefer not to waste $'s on a product with a manufacturing defect."
,,,,,Rodeo Drive is Crazy Good Coffee!,Rodeo Drive is my absolute favorite and I'm ready to order more!  That's if I can find it.<br />I don't know why they are discontinuing it.<br />It arrived very fast.
,,,,,"Good, but not Wolfgang Puck good","Honestly, I have to admit that I expected a little better. That's not to say that this is bad coffee - in fact it's quite bold without being too acidic, and pretty satisfying overall. I think my main problem is that Wolfgang Puck's name is attached to it, so perhaps it set my expectations a little high. I have a Wolfgang Puck knife set that I adore, and is very high quality for what I paid for it. This coffee was on sale, so it was well worth it also, I just hoped for something that would knock my socks off - which it didn't. I also purchased the Breakfast blend, and Jamaica me crazy at the same time. The breakfast blend was the best, in my opinion, and the jamaican coffee smelled the best, but was the least successful."
,,,,,Good Coffee from Amazon.com,"The Breakfast In Bed coffee from Wolfgang Puck is  a good medium roast coffee.  My husband, the regular coffee drinker of our house, likes it, but feels he would like the coffee more if it were a bit stronger.  The product arrived quite soon after ordering."
,,,,,Tasteless and watery,"I'm not a gourmet coffee critic, but this stuff is disappointing.  Based upon previous good reviews, I suspect that the coffee in the K-cups I received is not the same -- they may have changed the manufacturing.  The Wolfgang Puck Decaf I received is lifeless, watery, and tasteless.  There's no aroma when it's brewing in the Keurig.  Never again."
,,,,,Wonderful K-cups,"The Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Chef's Reseerve Columbian Decaf is fantastic and very delicious.  I definitely recommend this product to anyone who wants a great cup of coffee."
,,,,,My favorite of the WP K cups.,Nice round flavor. Not harsh or botter. I enjoy it with French Vanilla creamer.  Lately it has been harder to find.  I do hope they have not discontinued it!
,,,,,Bad Cups,"Coffee tastes great, but the cups get torn apart when brewing.  What a mess that is!!  I am quite disappointed because I do like this flavor of coffee!!"
,,,,,Somewhat disappointing,"Perhaps my expectations were too high. When I see the name ""Wolfgang Puck"", I expect to be impressed. This (to my taste) is very average tasting coffee. To be fair, it is billed as a medium roast, and that's what it is. However, it's just too bland for my taste.<br /><br />If you want decaf with more character, try Green Mountain Coffee's Dark Magic Decaf <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B006N3I2SK"">Green Mountain Coffee Decaf Dark Magic, K-Cup Portion Pack for Keurig Brewers 24-Count</a>, or Emeril's Jazzed Up Decaf <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004616B3Y"">Emeril's Jazzed Up DECAF 48 K-Cups</a>. They are darker roasts though, so if you want a milder coffee the Wolfgang Puck might be what you are looking for."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck K-cup decaf,This is my wife's favorite. She grew up in Seattle and has consumed countless gallons of various types of coffee in her lifetime so I assume this is good coffee. She is also my wine taster as her palate is much more sensitive than mine.
,,,,,Bitter taste,"I tried this product solely for the fact it has Wolfgang's name on it.  I should have stuck with Timothy's brand.  This was way too strong to be labeled a breakfast coffee, more like a dinner coffee.  I will not be buying this again, also way too expensive compared to the others."
,,,,,Wonderful coffee,"Love this coffee, but cannot buy it through regular outlets, so am gouged by SASA Corner. Really sticks in my craw paying more than a buck a cup."
,,,,,Our favorite k-cup yet,"We were given a Keurig for a wedding present, along with several variety packs. So far, Wolfgang Puck's Jamaica Me Crazy is our favorite, and we will definitely be repeat buyers of this flavor."
,,,,,My favorite!,"This is my favorite late evening cup of coffee.  Nice flavor, just right before retiring for the night. Keep stocking this brand and I will keep coming back for it!!"
,,,,,Great Flavor & Coffee,It's a great flavor and makes a great cup of coffee. I fine you can have more than 1 cup of this coffee and not feel like it's too much of a flavored coffee. Puck has captured a great flavor with this coffee.
,,,,,Beware!  Flavored Coffee...,"It sure would be nice if they stated ANYWHERE in the description of this coffee that it is flavored.  I love the Bed and Breakfast coffee, it's just plain coffee, so I was surprised when I received the Jamaica coffee and it was flavored.  YUCK!"
,,,,,so disappointing,"I ordered 3 boxes of 18 each.............and opened one box to find they were PODS and not<br />for Keurig, AND I can't return them!!!?????  Yes,the pods fit into the Keurig but<br />the end product is weak and awful.  I am most disappointed"
,,,,,Yummy Coffee,I love the Wolfganag Puck flavors.  This Vienna blend is very nice.  It is medium roast so it is not too strong.  Has a wonderful flavor without being a flavored coffee.  One of my favorites.
,,,,,The BEST coffee EVER!!!,We purchased an assorted package of K-Cups (by various makers) and of all the coffees THIS is my FAVE!  I really can't see any reason to ever taste-test another flavor!  It smells delicious and TASTES DELICIOUS too!!
,,,,,poorly sealed,"The coffee is good. However, at least half of these haven't been sealed correctly. When I brew them the edge of the foil pops open and coffee grounds go everywhere. Not fun to clean. It may have just been the batch we got, but I won't be ordering these again."
,,,,,Decent flavor,Well the creme caramel was on sale so I decided to give it a shot. Plus the fact that each K Cup is individually prepared by Mr. Puck himself. Anyway I quite enjoy these. I never buy flavored ones so overall I'm happy with these but they are definitely not my favorite as I usually buy the bolder ones and these are fairly mild.
,,,,,Tastes like i didn't change the kcup from the last cup,"Honestly the first time I tried Jamaica me crazy I had to double check to make sure that I didn't leave the pod irom my last cup n the coffee maker. Weak coffee, flavor didn't appeal to me either. Might appeal to someone who likes their coffee on the weaker side. Wolfgang's vienna roast was pleasant though."
,,,,,K cups disfigured and unusable,"Love the flavor, but 12 of the cups in the 24 count box were misshapen/melted, as if they'd been exposed to heat during filling.  My husband used two of the ones that were not affected, so I'm not returning them, but certainly wish quality control had caught this.  The affected k cups are so misshapen they will not fit into the space in the Keurig."
,,,,,Wolfgand Puck's Breakfast in Bed Coffee,"Never got a delivery as fast as we did this time.  We were running low on our special coffee. We have sampled many K-cup coffees, some in assorted packs and decided this is the best.  It is mellow, never bitter and always totally enjoyable."
,,,,,Second favorite,"This is my second favorite after the breakfast in bed flavor. I love Wolfgang Puck coffee. It's a little bolder then the breakfast in bed, but still smooth."
,,,,,"""Breakfast in Bed"" - Great, smooth, medium roast coffee. Confirmed: this is not decaf.","This is our favorite K-cup at home. Mellow and flavorful.<br /><br />Also, I wanted to clear-up the question of whether or not this is decaf - it is not. See the response I received from WP Coffee:<br /><br />""Is Breakfast in Bed K-cup actually a decaf coffee?""<br /><br />""Thanks for reaching out to Wolfgang Puck Coffee. The Breakfast in Bed is not a decaf blend....""<br /><br />Thanks.<br />Mandy M<br />Customer Service<br />Wolfgang Puck Coffee"
,,,,,Hawaiian Hazelnut Always Out of Stock,"The Hawaiian Hazelnut is my favorite K-Cup flavor from any vendor, but it's ALWAYS out of stock on Amazon.com; it seems that all of the other Puck flavors are available for a very reasonable $16.54/24-cup price and sold directly by Amazon.com, but HH's price fluctuates wildly from 3rd-party resellers and hasn't been available directly from Amazon.com for months.  As I'm writing this (8/24/12) the price of a 24-pack is $34.99 from the cheapest 3rd-party retailer, which is absolutely ridiculous.  AMAZON, why can't you stock the Hawaiian Hazelnut the same way you stock the other flavors??  The fact that I would take the time to write a review about this should tell you how much I like the product..."
,,,,,"Good taste, but seals are loose so they're busting open while brewing","The vanilla coffee taste is pretty good and mild, as I expected. But I bought it for a discount from the Amazon Warehouse (otherwise K-Cups are a little expensive). When Amazon does this, it usually means they are trying to get rid of this stock quickly.<br /><br />As I expected, the expiration date is for a month or two from now, so they were trying to get rid of them. I also noticed the seals didn't seem as tight as they normally are. This also could be because it was sitting in Amazon's warehouse in the heat all summer.<br /><br />As I expected, about half of these K-cups burst open while brewing. (This is not usual, and I've tried many different brands.) This made them leak (so clean-up was kind of annoying) and not taste as fresh, but it still tasted decent. Bottom line: When K-cups are discounted from Amazon Warehouse, be ready to pay in other ways! lol"
,,,,,yummy,this is just the perfect thing to end a tired day.  the taste is smooth and warm and creamy.  i find that i look forward to having a cup while i read for a few minutes. what a treat.
,,,,,This coffee is DECAF! Just so yah know does not say on page.,This coffee is good and has nice subtle flavor. I am disappointed though because I looked at the bottom and it says decaf. I dunno bout you but I drink coffee for the caffeine. In the picture on bottom of box has text but it is so small I did not even consider looking on it. So just disappointed that is decaf and does not say on page when ordering.
,,,,,good vanilla coffee,This is good vanilla coffee.  I got this and the green mountain and prefer this one.  It has a nice sweet flavor
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut K-Cup Coffee,"Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut Coffee for Keurig brewer.  Good medium strength coffee with Hazelnut flavor. Full-body, enjoyable anytime of the day. I really like this coffee."
,,,,,The Sorrento is soothingly smooth good blend!  No after taste!,"I really enjoy Wolfgang Puck's K-Cups, so far all the ones I've tried haven't left my stomach churning..and,<br /><br />this was my first time trying out the Sorrento Fair Trade Roast and purchased it on a Warehouse Amazon price deal.  I am really happy with my purchase.  The taste of the Sorrento is what I would expect of a Medium Roast = A good, smooth blend.  No bitter, acidic after taste, and leaves you wanting for more after that first cup!  (At least, it left me)! :p  It's doesn't leave you with the ""shhhakes"" either, it has that right ""balance"" you need with your daily cup of coffee.<br /><br />Yes, I will be getting another 24-Count of this when I am finished with this pack!<br /><br />5-Stars!"
,,,,,Close to expiration date.,"Coffee quality is as good as expected but, close to expiring. Next time, I will spend the extra few dollars and buy the coffee localy."
,,,,,Best so far,"I'm a relative newcomer to Keurig coffee, but I do know that I was generally disappointed in the drink produced. However, the Breakfast in Bed K-Cup produces a nicely balanced, not-too-thin cup without being too harsh. I still haven't achieved anything like what I can make either with my french press or with my drip machine, but it's definitely better than the at-work alternative, Community Coffee."
,,,,,Makes a great cup of coffee,"If you like a balanced cup of joe, this is a great choice. The coffee is smooth and balanced. There is no bitterness or bite. Thank you Chef Puck for this fantastic decaf coffee choice!"
,,,,,Breakfast in bed!,"Smooth with a hint of flavor.  Medium boldness yet rich in taste.  Not a ""wake me up"" but certainly enjoyable!"
,,,,,excellent taste,My second purchase of this  cofee & like the first cup it has been wonderful to wake up to.  Not too bold or brash but a good drink to start the day with
,,,,,Best Coffee EvER!!!!,"The best thing that I look foreward to every morning . It makes my day ,the best tasting coffee ever"
,,,,,Good coffee for strong coffee lovers!,I really enjoy this one and I've tried many! In my top 5. A little pricey but will order again sometime in the future.
,,,,,"Good, if you like flavored coffee","I too purchased this product thinking it might not be a flavored product, and before it arrived I looked it up to see that there was some rumor as to a coconut flavor.<br /><br />So, lets get this out of the way. *********Do Not Purchase this is you do not like flavored coffee. It is flavored.<br /><br />The first thing you notice is a deep coconut aroma, almost akin to Hazelnut in its presentation. The initial mouthfeel is good, a light roast but a snappiness to the roast which settles in nicely with the flavor, which<br />has a definite dark chocolate taste without the bitterness.<br /><br />The finish is semisweet chocolate, Jamaican coffee and faint toasted coconut.<br /><br />Bottom Line: if you like flavored coffee with coconut/hazelnut/cocoa profiles, you will like this coffee."
,,,,,Woflgang Puck Favorite !!,"Jamaica Me Crazy is an awesome smooth coffee, Light Coconut/Vanilla flavorful taste.<br />a good coffee if you don't like real strong coffee.Highly recommend."
,,,,,"Great, considering I usually prefer a light/medium roast","I got one K-Cup of Wolfgang Puck's Colombian Reserve dark roast as part of a variety 35-pack that I bought here on Amazon. Since I'd always assumed that I preferred the less-burnt flavor of a light or medium roast, I was pleasantly surprised that I enjoyed the way this coffee sat on my tongue. It is sweet, full, and gently bitter. I brewed it in a 9.25 oz. cup in an effort to dilute it a little, but I may be gutsy enough to try a 7.25 oz. cup the next time around."
,,,,,MMMMM,"Smooth, delicious, can't wait to wakeup with my coffee! I love all the Wolfgang Puck coffee flavors...never a dull flavor!"
,,,,,Wonderful coffee!!,This is our first time trying the Wolfgang Puck coffee - so glad we did!!!  It is a wonderful medium blend and great for any time of day!  I would buy it again!
,,,,,Best High-quality K cup,This is the best k cup coffee that we have been able to find.  Very rich flavors and a medium + roast.  We love this one!
,,,,,Smells amazing!,I'm not a huge flavored coffee fan. Usually I prefer lattes with flavored syrups. A friend sent me a K-Cup to try and the smell was mouth watering before it even finished brewing. The flavor was strong enough to drink it only with milk; I added a little vanilla syrup when I reheated it. I am not a coconut fan but the flavor is barely there. It is just a unique taste for when you're in the mood for something different!
,,,,,Wolfgang puck coffee vanilla francaise,I loved this brand.  It was the best vanilla flavor of others I tried.  I would buy more if it was a better price.
,,,,,Breakfast in Bed is a treat,"Fantastic taste, smooth ""feel"", no nasty aftertaste, pairs great with creamer. What more can one want from a coffee? This has become my favorite."
,,,,,Love it!,Best flavored k cup I've ever had! I recommend this for everyone. Great flavor! I've given it to all my friends and they get hooked.
,,,,,Amazing!,"I didn't know what this would taste like, but I'm so glad I ordered it.  What a perfect cup of yummy coffee for a cool summer morning!"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed coffee,"Wake up to a cup of Wolfgang Puck Coffe Breakfast in Bed (medium Roast) K-cup for Keurig. is a great way to start your day, or just sit down and relax. Try it and you will be buying more.<br /><br />Shop Amazon for Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Breakfast in Bed"
,,,,,Bold Great Taste!,This is a favorite in the office and in my house. We burn through this coffee. I've tried a few of the other Wolfgang coffees and this one is by far the best. I've seen better prices for this at a lot of other places. This is an excellent coffee to start your day with.
,,,,,Great blend to get the day started =),"I've tried a wide selection of k-cups including the big names like Starbucks, Tully's, Donut House, Dunkin Donuts, etc and they all have something in common.. either too watery (weak) or too bitter (strong). I tried Breakfast in Bed based on the reviews and I was not disappointed. It's flavorful without being strong or weak. It's hard to get a cup of coffee from a Keurig that tastes like it was brewed like a normal coffee machine.. this k-cup is the exception.. I'll be stocking up."
,,,,,A Loyal Wolfgang Puck Customer,"love the wolfgang puck restaurants,cookware,brand endorsed products, all his brand products / cuisine are amazing, i am a loyal fan, yet this creme caramel coffee is tasteless, no real coffee flavor, no hint of caramel or creme, it brews like a bit of steamed milk, that somewhat pasty tasteless feel on your palate. soooo dissapointed as i am such a loyal fan of all his brand, products. sadly,a waste of funds, did not return because i think food items are none refundable."
,,,,,Hated it!,"Didn't realize it was flavored and thought, when I had my first sip, that it tasted like chemicals. F-. Gave it away the next day at work."
,,,,,Good but not perfect,"Good, but the Green Mountain reserve Sumatra is better by 1- 1 and a half stars. Sort of tastes a little stale."
,,,,,wolfgang puck k cup breakfast in bed,Wonderful flavor would purchase this blend of coffee again light flavor not bitter at all and price was great the best I found anywhere
,,,,,Smooth coffee taste,I find many of the K cups are a bit bitter for my taste.  I want something simple and smooth.  This coffee is wonderful!
,,,,,Delicious Colombian coffee!,"Wolfgang Puck's Colombian coffee is delicious!  I find it to be a smooth and flavorful dark roast with a lovely aroma, yet without a bitter or acidic quality that might leave an unpleasant aftertaste.  It is a bit expensive, like all k-cups, but I think it's worth it due to convenience and exceptional flavor.  I definitely recommend this coffee to others!"
,,,,,This is very good!,Not much of a coffee drinker but this Wolfgang Vienna brand is good. Not strong but a mellow taste.  The flavored coffees are getting on my nerves and this is just a good everyday coffee flavor. Everyone in the family and visitors like it. Would buy again.
,,,,,A great cup of coffee,I truly enjoy a good cup of coffee. It does give me a lift in the morning. Wolfgang Puck really knows how to produce a fine cup. Thanks.
,,,,,thanks!!!,"great service and delivery for a really good product. i am constantly looking for a good hazelnut coffee and so far this is the best, along with green mountain..."
,,,,,Best coffee,"My family is full of coffee snobs.  If you like robust coffee and use k-cups, this is the product for you."
,,,,,YUM!,"While I love flavored coffees, I had never tried any of the Wolfgang Puck line.  This moved to the top of my favorites list with the first cup!  Not only is the aroma delightful, the flavor is excellent as well.  I drink my coffee black and this one has no bitter after taste and the flavor isn't overpowering.  The flavor is a very light coconut and the coffee is a medium body.  I must admit that I was a little hesitant about a ""coconut"" flavor.  DON'T BE!  Everyone around me wants a cup....I refuse to share!"
,,,,,"Bold, but Not Teeth Jarring Bold. Nice Flavor and a Nice Cup of Coffee.","Wolfgang Puck French Roast is a nice, bold (not too bold), flavorful cup of coffee.  If you like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHFSQ6"">Coffee People Extra Bold Organic, Dark Roast Coffee for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>, then you should like Wolfgang Puck's French Roast.<br /><br />This French Roast has a deep flavor with a hint of sweetness and a smooth finish - a good choice for a morning cup of coffee.<br /><br />Recommended.<br /><br />(Note to Manufacturer: as a consumer, I wish you would use real coffee descriptions(i.e., hints of xxx, smooth finish) rather than fluff advertising like ""Bring the aromas of France home with you and ""Profitez des bons moments"" (enjoy the good moments)!"" - what does that really mean? It took me awhile to decide to purchase this coffee because the description gave me zero idea of what to expect)."
,,,,,Solid Medium Roast Coffee with Just a Hint of Bold. Good Flavor. Not Acidic.,"Good choice for your morning coffee if you like a medium, slightly bold flavor.  Vienna coffee is not a real bold coffee, so medium roast coffee drinkers should like the flavor.<br /><br />Vienna Coffee House has less of a kick than <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXFL1Q"">Wolfgang Puck French Roast (Dark Roast), 24-Count K-cups (Pack of 2)</a>), but a little more than <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHFUDC"">Coffee People Donut Shop Medium Roast, Extra Bold for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>.<br /><br />Good flavor, slightly sweet with a good bean taste that isn't tough on your stomach.<br /><br />To the manufacturer: please revise your coffee descriptions - they are terrible and give the consumer no information on the flavor/style of coffee featured.  If you want us to buy the coffee, be forthright on your descriptions."
,,,,,Another great dark K-cup coffee,"I love the rich, full-bodied flavor of a dark-roast coffee.  When I bought my first Keurig machine I wasted no time in ordering all of the dark roast K-cups that I could find.  I initially settled on Newman's Own Dark Roast as my ""go-to"" coffee, but I didn't stop there.  I like to keep experimenting and looking for something new.  I happened to find Coffee People's Organic Extra Bold blend and was blown away.  It has been my favorite ever since I first tried it.  Last week I saw a listing for a Colombian dark roast sold under the Wolfgang Puck name (it is processed and distributed by Van Houtte) and decided to give it try.  Here is my impression of it:<br /><br />After brewing a cup (I used the 7 1/2 oz. setting) the first thing that I noticed was that it didn't have that freshly-brewed aroma that the Coffee People X-Bold does, however the taste was another story.  It hits your palate with medium acidity and a nice, sharp bite that gets your attention right away. The finish was surprising clean with a hint of spice (nutmeg or cinnamon?) and just a slight, lingering, pleasant bitterness.  I really like this coffee but I think that I will stick with Coffee People's Extra Bold and this will be my back-up brand.  However, I will keep looking for something new.  Who knows what I will find?<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001EO7GYY"">Newman's Own&iquest; Organics Special Blend (Extra Bold), K-cups For Keurig Brewers, 24-count,  Boxes (Pack of 2)</a><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002L444OQ"">Coffee People Organic, Extra Bold K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 50) [Amazon Frustration-Free Packaging</a>]"
,,,,,"Not Outstanding. Light to Medium Roast. Smooth, Not Acidic.","I love the names Wolfgang Puck gives to their coffees, but the coffee descriptions leave a lot to be desired.<br /><br />In this case, with ""Breakfast in Bed"", I expected a much more flavorful cup of coffee than delivered.  ""Breakfast in Bed"" is on the light side of the medium roasts and has a mild, but not very memorable flavor.  On the plus side, it is a smooth coffee and not acidic at all.<br /><br />A better choice, in my opinion, is <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHFUDC"">Coffee People Donut Shop Medium Roast, Extra Bold for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>, which also comes in the 50 pack.<br /><br />ADDED: Another nice, smooth medium blend is <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002APWQ0K"">Timothy's World Coffee, Kona Blend for Keurig Brewers, Medium, 50-Count K-Cups</a><br /><br />ADDED: for those who prefer a lighter smooth blend, try <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00196QVPM"">Keurig Green Mountain Coffee Roasters 80 K - Cup Colombian Fair Trade Slect Medium Roast Coffee</a> (link for product description only, not for best pricing)."
,,,,,This coffee is now DECAFF!,"One reviewer mentioned that this coffee was decaff and said it was listed as such on the bottom of the box (in small print). I checked my current box and saw no such labeling information. HOWEVER, the new boxes I received are a different color, with a slapped on label for Hawaiian Hazelnut and NOW the bottom of the box says it's made from 100% decaff coffee. While I like the flavor, I do NOT want decaff in the morning, which is when I drink coffee.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I am unable to return this item to Amazon because of their return policy, which is why I'm writing this review, to make sure others know the coffee packaging has changed and it is definitely labeled as decaffeinated now. I would give more stars for flavor, but the lack of official notification in the product description that this coffee is decaff makes me feel as if I tossed my money out the window, buying something I would not have otherwise ordered."
,,,,,Great Cuppa...except,"Ok, now on our third box of Breakfast in Bed. We had become fans of Donut House and Coffee Shop, looking for that balanced smooth ""Dunkinesque"" brew. We found ourselves coming up just a bit short in the strength/flavor area. Corrections were made in brew size and eventually adding in a bit of Emeril's Bold or various dark roasts. Well problem solved with the B in B. Smooth and flavorful and a good eye-opener. (Was worried the name somehow implied less caffeine)Based on our experience in these areas, 5 stars. The ""except""? On three seperate occasions out of two boxes purchased seperately, we had ""exploding"" K-cups! A small pop during brewing that sent coffee grounds spewing over and in the Keurig, counter top, and coffee cup. This at our home brewer AND our vacation house. Messy. Very messy, requiring unplugging and careful cleaning inside cup holder and area. Minus 1 star. Umm, exactly who makes these things and where...hopefully a road bump on the way to sucess. Peace."
,,,,,our favorite,"I have this flavor shipped automatically now, along with several others.  This happens to be our favorite, and I have to remind my husband the two boxes need to last until the next shipment.  A slight coconut aroma and flavor is so amazingly delightful in the morning.  Not overly strong, and perfect for our taste buds.  Our favorite part of waking up in the morning!"
,,,,,"Outstanding, Bold, Lively Sumatran. best of the K-cups","First you must know I am one who roasts my own green beans at home, including Sumatran, but also many African varieties. I like a STRONG cup of coffee. I use K-cups at work because we have no facility for rinsing/cleaning/getting water for a regular machine.<br /><br />Sumatran coffees generally have a very rich, earthy taste; some would describe it as being ""tangy"" almost. Having tried the two other main brands of Sumatran for K-cups, the Puck is by far the best. It is not as bold as something you would get from Starbucks or from roasting yourself, but it has all the flavor elements of a good Sumatran cup. It especially has that nice earthy taste. Even the aftertaste is rich.<br /><br />IMPORTANT: If you are looking for a k-cup that you will use on any other than the smallest cup setting, this coffee is not for you. In my opinion you get a Sumatran because you love strong coffee. Watered down it loses its distinctiveness. Get a generic french roast if you want weaker coffee with some flavor. I make mine with 2 k-cups, at the smallest setting. By camparison, I would give a Starbucks Sumatra mandheling a 10/10 rating for boldness. The Puck is about an 8, the Diedrich is a 4.<br />I highly recommend this coffee for bold coffee lovers, provided you use the smallest cup setting. You will not be disappointed. Best K-cup I have had yet, and I have tried many- Newman, Timothy's, Donut Shop, Diedrich, etc.<br /><br />Addendum: I have since tried th Green Mountain Sumatran, and gave that a one -star. Stale and bitter. I will definitely stay with Puck's."
,,,,,"A very nice, smooth, Americano style coffee","I bought a Wolfgang Puck sampler and this was certainly one of my favorites, so I ordered a bigger box and have truly been enjoying it.  This is a classic, medium-roast cup of coffee.  It's very smooth, with no bitterness.  I would say that if you enjoy Donut Shop, Tully's Kona, and Caribou, you will like this blend.  The label is adorable and makes me smile when I pop it in the Keurig each morning."
,,,,,My favorite k cup,My favorite Flavored coffee!!! This is not available in any of my local stores.  Better price than I have found at any local stores as well.
,,,,,BEST COFFEE EVER,"BEEN TRYING EVERY COFFEE BRAND AND FLAVOR FOR OVER A YEAR NOW AND THIS IS IT.  I JUST LOVE THIS COFFEE.  YOU SHOULD TRY A SMALL BOX AND SEE IF YOU AGREE.  EVERYONE HAS A DIFFERENT TASTE FOR COFFEE SO YOU MAY NOT LIKE IT, BUT WORTH A TRY.  I ALWAYS SAY IF YOU DON'T BUY A LOTTO TICKET YOU WILL NEVER WIN."
,,,,,Coffee Makes Me a Crazy,"If you liked flavored coffees, this one has a hint of coconut to it.  This is my favorite coffee by far. I look forward to my first cup every morning."
,,,,,Awesome Coffee,I love this coffee. Great taste and great way to start your morning. If you like flavored coffee you will like this.
,,,,,My Favorite K-Cup so far!,"These K-Cups are great! The coffee is mild and yummy, but still very flavorful. I love this, cant wait to get my next shipment!"
,,,,,Not good at all!!!!!!!!!!!!!,This flavor is horrible.  There are many other flavors much better.  Hawaiian Hazelnut is great!  Breakfast in Bed is AWesome!
,,,,,Good Coffee - Great Price,"I caught this as a ""Warehouse"" deal. $18.09 for 48 K-cups. This was my first experience with any Wolfgang Puck coffee.<br />The Rodeo Drive Blend is good, average coffee. Nothing exceptional. I prefer a little stronger, bolder coffee, but at this price, it works for me. There's other brands that I like a little better, but with K-cups, cost per unit is always something I have to factor in...<br />I'd buy it again @ $0.38/cup, but I probably wouldn't @ full price. If you keep your eyes peeled, you can always find a good deal... just have to be patient and stock up when the deals arise."
,,,,,YUMMO!  I am a coffee purist,"This is great coffee.  I am a coffee purist.  I don't add cream or sugar (unless it is weak or bitter). I truly enjoy coffee.  I have tried many different types of coffee for K-cups.  This is my new favorite. The price was amazing too.  Very smooth and subtle hazelnut flavor, not overpowering."
,,,,,Great Coffee,"Well we were looking for another coffee that would meet or exceed the k cups we were using and this has far out tasted the coffee cups we were using, I have bought almost 6 packages of these and used just about all of them and will be ordering a few more boxes here soon. Great coffee, from a regular guy point of view."
,,,,,Great Coffee!,"Take it from someone who was tried a lot of different K-cups, BUY THESE! The ""Breakfast in Bed"" blend is full of great flavor, roasted perfectly, and more importantly I have been choosing it over Green Mountain, which says a lot. It's true to its name, perfect for the morning."
,,,,,Outstanding!,"Reading the previous comments people have stated they did not know this was a flavored coffee but it clearly states that it is. Atleast it did on the sight I bought mine from. I was only brought to Amazon for the secure payment feature. It's a delightful flavored coffee, (depending on how you brew it), and is a pleasant wake up any morning."
,,,,,coconut in the morning?,"I did not know this had a coconut flavor or aroma as I got it in a variety pack. I put it in this am and immediately smelled coconut and thought oh no I don't like sweet in the AM. But its not sweet, I am quite surprised at the flavor and how I like it. Would I like it every morning..NO but it was a nice change. Made me feel I was waking up in a Jamacian cottage on the ocean hearing carribean music, well maybe not but it was close"
,,,,,Sorry Wolfgang!,"I love my Keurig coffee maker. And I enjoy experimenting with new coffee flavours. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXHGDM"">Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Creme Caramel, 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a> seemed to be a safe choice. I love coffee with cream. I love caramel. I even like Wolfgang Puck. But his Creme Caramel flavoured coffee is a disappointment. It's not awful. It just lacks a certain depth of flavour. Even using the 'small cup' setting, the aroma is very nice, but the taste is a bit watery. 'Black', the coffee has a slightly chemical aftertaste. Adding extra cream and sweetener masked the aftertaste, but it didn't add any of the caramel creaminess I was expecting. In short; the coffee taste is very mild, and the caramel taste isn't all that great. Sorry Wolfgang, but I'm afraid this one is a yawner."
,,,,,Just okay,"I like dark strong coffee but I just didn't really care for this one.  Not sure what it really was, almost a tad bitter?  Unfortunately I have another whole box of 24 to use up.  I picked up some Sumatran Reserve (also a dark) and prefer it."
,,,,,Perfect every day coffee.,"I have tried many different k-cups and this has remained my favorite for the longest time. It is the perfect balance, not too weak and not too bold. And since I usually drink my coffee black, the flavor alone is very important to me. It' has a great flavor and not too acidic."
,,,,,"Too much caramel cream, not enough coffee","If you like your flavored coffee to taste like coffee, this may not be for you.  I couldn't taste the coffee at all in the travel size brew, but the smaller brew sizes were a bit better."
,,,,,"Great Coffee, Great Price","Amazon had this as buy one get one free and since it was my favorite, I could not resist.  Great purchase."
,,,,,great taste,"this product is great tasting and you don't even need sugar or creamer, but if you like sweet coffee i'd say a little sugar and creamer would not hurt, this is a perfect product to wake up to every morning :)"
,,,,,Ahhhh...,This coffee is so smoothe.  I brew my morning cup with the medium cup size and it is delicious. It is a little weak on the large cup size setting.
,,,,,Pretty good coffee,"This is a smooth not bitter coffee. It's a little more pricey than some which are just as good, but it has a good sweet flavor, and I can recommend it."
,,,,,Tastes great,I bought a small 3 pack of this locally and liked it so much I bought the 48 pack.  Great deal on Amazon.
,,,,,Crazy indeed,Bought a sample pack today of the Jamaica Me Crazy and love the flavor.  The flavor is not too powerful nor was it  overwhelming.  I'd recommend the Wolf Gang Puck k-cups.
,,,,,Great Taste and Reasonably Priced,"I personally don't like strong coffee.  If you like weaker coffee, then this blend is a great choice for you.  Other reviews on here say that its too weak, which is probably true if your used to something strong.<br /><br />I also use flavored creamer to further enhance the taste. For the price, it can't hurt to give it a try."
,,,,,Yum Yum,"This is the smoothest and best tasting Keurig coffee I've tried.  It's not bitter, not too weak, not too strong, just right!"
,,,,,Can Wolfgang make a bad k-cup?,"These are awesome...as are all of Wolfgang Puck's k-cups. The coffee is smooth, the cups brew perfectly, the taste is unbelievable! My husband and I are hooked on these. The price is great considering what amazing coffee this is!!"
,,,,,WOLGANG PUCK FRENCH ROAST,WOLFGANG PUCK'S FRENCH ROAST HAS A DEEP ROBUST FLAVOR. I PREFER IT IN THE AFTERNOON... SOMETIMES WITH A SHOT OF GRAN MARNIER... OH YEAH...
,,,,,Nice French roast,"I've tried every single French roast K-cup, and this is one of my favorites.  The Starbucks and the Barista Prima are the two best French roast K-cups, but the gap between Wolfgang Puck's and those two are negligible.  This one has that great sweet smoky flavor that every good French roast should have."
,,,,,Wolfgang's Hazlenut,"This one is my wife's favorite of all the Hazlenut blends she has tried. This is her ""go to"" after a busy day of being retired.<br />Delivery was exceptional as usual, could not ask for much more."
,,,,,I wouldn't call it bold,"I got this coffee as part of a ""bold"" sampler pack.  While I found it flavorful I wouldn't call it bold.  My first WP k-cup was French Roast which I found extremely bitter.  This coffee doesn't have that problem.<br /><br />For reference purposes my in store drink is a Starbucks Americano.<br /><br />My favorite k-cups are:<br />Starbucks French Roast<br />Starbucks Caffe Verona<br />Starbucks Pike Place Roast<br />Green Mountain Xtra Bold Sumatran Reserve<br />Green Mountain Double Black Diamond<br />Green Mountain Revv<br />Green Mountain Dark Magic<br /><br />Other k-cups I've tried:  Coffee People Jet Fuel ,Green Mountain Dark Magic Decaf, Emeril Jazzed up Decaf, Starbucks Caffe Verona, Coffee People Black Tiger,  Starbucks House Blend, Starbucks Breakfast Blend, Starbucks Sumatra, Wolfgang Puck French Roast, Green Mountain Lake and Lodge, Green Mountain French Roast, Caribou Mahogony, Wolfgang Puck Sumatra Kopi Raya, Emeril Big Easy Bold"
,,,,,Wonderful tasting coffee,"My husband used to like the Nantucket Blend saying that it was awesome.  Then he tried this one, and it's the only one he drinks.  I drink other flavors, but I like taking sips of this one for sure...my husband is very territorial over these cups and says it's the only one he drinks.  If you're a coffee drinker, definitely try this one!"
,,,,,LOVE this!,"I drink my coffee black,so quality is a must! This is an excellent medium roast with a smooth consistency and perfect amount of kick. I love all the Wolfgan Puck coffee k-cups, but this is absolutely my favorite!"
,,,,,One of my top favorites.,"One of my top favorites, it's infused with coconut and has a very unique flavor.  This coffee is best enjoyed without cream or sugar, and it will ether become one of your favorites or you'll never buy it again. Some of my other favorites are Vanilla Biscotti, Butter Toffee, Hawaiian Hazelnut, and Donut Shop."
,,,,,Good tasting Coffee,I drink a lot of coffee and I buy several different types. I found this particular one to be pleasant tasting with a nice aroma while brewing. There is no after-taste so you always want another cup.
,,,,,Great Coffee !,"Wonderful tasty coffee with a nice aroma as it is brewing. There is no after-taste at all and it very satisfying, you always want another cup of coffee. I continue to buy it."
,,,,,Nice flavorful and full-bodied.,A very nice flavor with no after-taste. It gives off a nice fragrance while brewing and has a very satisfying taste. You have to have another cup!
,,,,,Good Columbian,"Dark and full flavored, but distinctly Columbian.  This is a great morning coffee. Better cup of AM Joe than you will get at a coffee place."
,,,,,Breakfast in Bed review,"There is so many different K- Cup to chose from. So I asked in the store what brand and flavor is bought the most. They suggested Wolfgang Puck Coffee - Breakfast in Bed. The only had a few on the shelf and I was not disappointed. Now I am hooked. For you people that use creamer, this coffee is so good you will not even need creamer."
,,,,,Wolfgang knows how to brew it!,"My favorite of the Wolfgang series discovered when trying all of the flavors in the available sample pack. Very good flavor, consistent with each pod and not overdone with added flavors. Very good dark roast Colombian cup of coffee from the Wolf."
,,,,,The best Hazelnut out there!,We have tried all of the Hazelnut flavored coffee brands.  This is by far the best.  To bad it isn't an auto ship.
,,,,,Great blend of flavor.,"There's not much I can say that hasn't already been said. But when I brewed this coffee I really wasn't expecting to like it at all, seeing as I don't normally like coconut flavored things. But I really like the blend of flavors. To me it doesn't really taste like coconut as much as it does just tropical-ness in general. It's like.. palm tree flavored coffee. And the flavor isn't too overpowering at all, it still has a nice coffee taste. It's just right."
,,,,,"Only a 'HINT"" of vanilla","This is a dark, smooth brew (darker than Timothy's French Vanilla), But as with Timothy's it has only a slight hint of vanilla. This is my third ""taste test"" searching for the best vanilla flavored coffee.  Gloria Jean's was undrinkable.  Timothy's was pleasant but not as deep a roast as this. If it only had more vanilla flavor this would be my hands down favorite."
,,,,,Great flavor,"I've tried lots of flavors of coffee and this one is my favorite! Great taste, not bitter at all. A great flavored coffee for people who don't really like the taste of coffee."
,,,,,great coffee,"the aroma is awesome!!  love the flavor, really gets you going in the morning.  prompt delivery, this is definatly my husbands favorite single cup coffee"
,,,,,The Best,"After 5 years with the Keurig, this is the best .  If you like a medium blend, it perfect.  Its smooth, and has taste. Not watered down on either setting."
,,,,,Yum!!,"I am not a huge morning coffee person as this seems to be the only time of day black coffee upsets my stomach. No idea why. My work got a Keurig recently and buy the Caribou regular and morning blends, which are ok but I can hardly drink them unless there's a creamer of some sort in them.<br /><br />So on a recent trip to BB&B I perused their wall of K-cups and this one caught my eye. I am generally a fan of flavored coffees and this sounded good, so I bought an 18 cup pack. I have to say it is delicious! The coconut flavor is light but definitely there, and doesn't leave a bitter aftertaste like most black coffees do. It smells so good my co-workers have done a 180 walking by my desk to ask me what smells so good.<br /><br />Obviously if you're a coffee connoisseur this won't be for you, but if not it is definitely worth a shot. And the best part for me, aside from the flavor, no stomach upset!"
,,,,,I would order again!,Wolfgang Puck makes the BEST coffee! The package arrived on time and in perfect condition! I would definitely order this again.
,,,,,Makes you feel like you are having breakfast in bed.,Have enjoyed every single cup of Breakfast in Bed. Just the right kind of brew to wake up these old bones and get me started on the day's adventure. Also enjoy it while watching NCIS so I can join Gibbs enjoying a brew as well.
,,,,,My favorite hazelnut k-cup!,"I love this brand!  The best hazelnut flavor ever! I wait for it to go on sale because it is more expensive than the other brands.  Also, as another reviewer noted, it does say decaff on the bottom of the package! It really should state that in the product description. I've noticed the packages from Bed, Bath and Beyond did not state this but can't imagine both are available.  I'll still purchase it because the flavor is so smooth."
,,,,,An EXCELLENT hazelnut choice for your Keurig brewer...,"I've long been a fan of flavored coffees so when we got our Keurig brewer we jumped on the opportunity to sample as many different flavors of k cups as possible.  Our first foray into the single-serve hazelnut world was <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0029XDZKI"">Gloria Jean's Coffees,Hazelnut K-Cup Portion Pack for Keurig K-Cup Brewers (Pack of 50)</a>, which was absolutely awful.  We've always enjoyed hazelnut coffee in the past, though, and vowed not to give up.  I ordered a sample pack of Wolfgang Puck's hazelnut directly from Keurig's website and hoped for the best.<br /><br />Thankfully, Hawaiian Hazelnut blows all of the other hazelnut k cups out of the water.  It is smokey and delicious without being dark and overwhelming.  The hazelnut really does taste like actual hazelnut, which you'd think would be something a coffee drinker could take for granted, but we've been disappointed in the past.  I'd never tried coffee from the Wolfgang Puck brand before, but our positive experience with Hawaiian Hazelnut has definitely gotten me interested in trying other varieties.<br /><br />The hazelnut flavor is pretty bold and full bodied, which is nice, but there is no bitterness or acidity to be found.  This suits me just fine since I enjoy a milder roast, but people who enjoy their coffee strong and dark might not enjoy this blend as much.<br /><br />We'll definitely be repurchasing this coffee when we run out."
,,,,,Where's the caramel creme?,"If you like to taste the ""flavor"" in your flavored coffee, skip this one. I've struggled to taste the creme caramel flavoring that is supposed to be in here. The coffee flavor is also slightly bitter, but that could just be my taste buds longing for some flavoring! I'd recommend Green Mountain, Gloria Jeans or Van Houtte brands before this one."
,,,,,Best darn coffee :),I love this coffee - it's one of my all time favorites - it has the best flavor and I like the light roast.<br /><br />EXCELLENT!!!!
,,,,,Good morning coffee,"I love my Keurig but haven't found my ""perfect"" cup of coffee yet, although this comes close. I prefer a medium brew, not bold or strong. Breakfast in Bed is my choice so far."
,,,,,Tasty but defective cups.,"I love Sumatra coffee and was excited to receive these K-Cups however was disappointed when I opened my Amazon box and found that the plastic wrap holding the two boxes of K-Cups was full of grinds meaning that there was a possible blowout of a cup... after carefully unwrapping the boxes and attempting to get as little coffee grinds everywhere as possible I opened the first box and all cups were fine, however the second box every kcup was covered in fine grinds and I had to clean each one and found that 3 of the cups were defective due to the top being stamped on at an angle and the grinds had spilled everywhere. I now see other reviews stating they had defective cups as well. However the taste of the coffee is good."
,,,,,Sweet Coconut Flavor with A Mild Aftertaste.  Mild to Medium Blend.,"Jamaica Me Crazy is a sweet, coconut flavored coffee that has a mild aftertaste.  It is not a bold blend, but rather a mild to medium blend that leans more mild.<br /><br />This is certainly not a first cup of morning coffee for die-hard coffee drinkers who lean towards the medium to bold blends.  I would consider it a second cup of morning coffee, afternoon pick me up coffee or a dessert coffee.<br /><br />Flavor is OK.  I would like it better if the aftertaste didn't linger.  For a flavored coffee, it isn't bad & if you are a coconut fan, it is a blend to try on for size."
,,,,,It's Wolf!,Truly not much needs to be said because it's Wolf and to wake up to his coffee here at the house is fantastic!
,,,,,"Good, not Great","I expected more flavor from W. Puck. Though this coffee does taste good, it didn't have caramel flavor as expected. This is my opinion. Someone else may feel differently. The price is okay, I would not discount this product at all. It's a good product. Try it, you may like it."
,,,,,Best Vanilla  K-Cup Coffee Ever!,I've tried all Vanilla coffee K-cups and by far this is the best! Wolf Gang Puck Vanilla Francaise is a smooth vanilla experience that lasts way after the coffee is consumed.  Try it you'll love it!
,,,,,Delicious!!,"I am not a huge coconut fan, so I wasn't excited about trying this, but with one sip it definitely won me over!  The flavor is perfect and is now one of the flavors in our regular rotation.  And it smells so good!!!"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed,This is my daughter's favorite K-cup product. Mild medium roast it is the next best thing to having Wolfgang cooking breakfast for you in your kitchen.
,,,,,This is the best,"WOW! That's what my husband said when he tasted Wolfgang Puck's 'Jamaica Me Crazy' coffee for my Keurig.  He is not a fan of 'Strong' coffees and he really liked this one - We both do.  I highly recommend this one.  Can you put it on the Subscribe and Save??<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXL0V6"">Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Jamaica Me Crazy, 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>"
,,,,,My personal favorite K-Kup.,"I'm sure this flavor isn't for everyone, but if you enjoy your coffee on the sweeter and more flavorful side then you should enjoy this. It is not what I would call a ""strong"" coffee by any means. I would describe it as mild and flavorful."
,,,,,Delicious!!,"I just recently got a Keurig coffee maker & registered it online.  Keurig sent me a coupon for buy 2 boxes, get 2 free.  Awhile back, a local bagel shop had a coconut coffee that I fell in love with.  So, I decided to try this coffee out because it has coconut in it.  I brewed my first cup this morning & it smelled VERY strong of coconut so of COURSE I couldn't wait to try it.  After it cooled down a bit I took my first sip.  AMAZING!!  It is quite delightful & I STRONGLY recommend it if you like coconut coffee.  No bitter aftertaste, either & no soot @ the bottom of my cup.  Awesome"
,,,,,good coffee,"I was really impressed with this coffee, it has a nice bold taste, yet a smooth<br /> finish. I would order this coffee again."
,,,,,So close to Island Coconut K Cups,"When I coulnd't find Island Coconut K cups anywhere, I found this and decided to try it.  Although it is not exact, it is so close it puts a smile on face.  The coconut is not over powering, but you can taste the HINT of it certainly.  I love this and would order again and again...because THIS is available and Island coconut is not!!"
,,,,,Favorite!,This is my absolute favorite coffee flavor out there!  I'm so glad it comes in K-Cups!  And I'm glad it is so inexpensive!
,,,,,"Wolfgan Puck Coffee,Breakfast in Bed K-cups",I find this particular brand as good as the local coffee shop coffee (D.D.) which is a compliment to the maker. I have made this particular brand my #1 choice.
,,,,,One of the Best Mild K-cups Made,I have at least 4 dozen different k-cups at my house right now because we love to experiment with different flavors.  My favorite is Timothy's Rainforest Espresso because I like a bold coffee.  But others that prefer something milder say that Breakfast in Bed is their favorite.  I like it to but only when made as a stronger brew.  I have purchased maybe 15 boxes of this since it came out.
,,,,,This coffee is very good.,"I normally drink only Donut Shop, but when I saw this on sale I thought I would give it a try.  I was quite impressed with it and really enjoy this one.  I have now added it to my list of favorite K-cups to buy."
,,,,,Disappointed,"Vanilla flavor is barely noticeable.  Acidic taste, not at all what I expected.  Breakfast in Bed and Hawaiian Hazelnut are much better choices."
,,,,,Love it!,I really like the flavor of this one! It has a low acidity but still full of flavor! Now I have to have it every morning and I am having trouble finding another one I like this much.
,,,,,Superb coffee,"I'm actually suprised from reading some of the rants about this coffee.  I have tried 20+ K-cup varieties and this is by far my favorite.  Contrary to some reviews, I don't find it to be weak at all and in fact, is quite bold but with absolutely not hints of being bitter.  Very smooth and leaves a great aftertaste.  I prefer really strong coffee and this is a good compromise for a medium roast as it's not as bold as I would normally prefer but certainly strong enough to satisfy my preferences.<br /><br />I typically drink Wolfgang's Jamaica Me Crazy but ever since trying Rodeo Drive, I haven't gone back."
,,,,,A bit disappointed,"I Recently bought a 3 pack of this coffee at Bed Bath and Beyond. As its brewing, it smells great (if you like coconut).  The taste isn't bad, but for me, it has that artificial after taste that many flavored coffees have. I gave it 3 stars because it's not terrible. But I wouldn't buy this coffee again. If you're sensitive to after taste, I wouldn't recommend. I'd Grab a dark roast and throw some fresh coconut in there instead if you want a coconut coffee."
,,,,,Surprisingly delicious,I am usually not a fan of flavored coffe or coconut for that matter and when I bought the sampler pack of Jamaica Me Crazy I honestly did not see that it was a flavored coffee.  The aroma that it gives off while brewing transports me to a tropical island somewhere.  The flavor of the coffee is very subtle and leaves no after taste at all.  A great new addition to my coffee line up.
,,,,,Best Coffee ever,"This is the best tasting coffee available on k-cups!!!! The flavor is amazing, it is more expensive than other brands, but for a reason. Definitely worth trying."
,,,,,Excellent Good Tasting Coffee,This is one of the best coffees I have ever had for my Keurig.  It is a nice smooth coffee.  And the price is the best price I could find.  I will be buying more.
,,,,,Awesome Flavor,My husband and I are obsessed with this coffee...we take Kcups and hide them around the house because we wanna make sure it lasts a long time! Such a bold and delicious flavor!
,,,,,great coffee!!,"I had tried this coffee before, it is wonderful.  Smooth and rich, full flavored, but not too bold. I would recommend it to anyone."
,,,,,Good but not a premium coffee,"I tried this coffee, even though it was significantly more expensive than the Green Mountain (organic, free trade) Sumatra that I have been using for some time. Wolfgang Puck has the name and the rep.<br /><br />If this were the only Sumatra dark roast on the market, I'd be really happy with it. This is good coffee.<br /><br />It is not outstanding coffee. Compared to Folgers, this product is awesome. Unfortunately for Mr. Puck, I am comparing it to Green Mountain Sumatra.<br /><br />The organic and free trade Sumatra from Green Mountain is better to my taste, and it is cheaper. Mornings are good."
,,,,,Good coffee bad packaging,"The coffee is good,however the k-cup is not packaged well,the coffee machine barely streams coffee,more of a fast drip.  The whole idea is it's fast,right?"
,,,,,LOVE IT!,"It was a bit of a risk to order this, I mean what are you going to do with 2 boxes of kcups that taste terrible? But this was delish, the flavor was really good, and it was still awesome after it had cooled down. It has a coconutty, vanilla flavor, very nice!!"
,,,,,Good flavor & strength,"I like the Jamaica Me Crazy better, but when it's out of stock, this is my second choice.<br /><br />It's got a nice flavor & strength, without being bitter."
,,,,,I really like this one!,"Taste is a personal thing, isn't it.  So I'll just tell you(as a gauge) my all time favorite K-cup is Timothy's Midnight Magic a ""california roast"" (which is dark). I'm partial to dark roasts and probably would not have even bothered with this Sorrento, but a friend had it, so I tried it, and lo and behold - I'm very glad I did. I find this blend even better than Puck's ""Kopei Ray"" which is his dark roast. There's a whole lot of good flavor here - the word ""luscious"" comes to mind. This one's not available every where and comes at a slight cost premium. I say it's worth it. These will be a regular for me. PS: A suggestion (which seems apparent); as with any k-cup, when you try a new blend, use the plain old 1 cup setting to check it out undiluted the first time."
,,,,,Love this creamy coffee,"This is my favorite KCup.  I'd describe it as medium-dark, creamy and rich.  And very consistent.  A lot of k-cups seem acidic to me, so i'm really glad i found this one. :]"
,,,,,Tasty,"Very delicious coffee, thankfully Amazon sells this flavor now.  I have been waiting for it since I tasted this last year.  I like the fact that you sell it in a 2 Pack rather than a single."
,,,,,"Not my favorite, but it came in second","My hair dresser's salon bought a Keurig Machine, so I have been able to sample a variety of K-Cups. K-cups are about 10 times more expensive than a regularly brewed cup of coffee so I have never considered buying one for myself, but having a Keurig Machine at a hair salon makes sense! People have a variety of tastes and K-Cups can provide a nice variety and freshly made one at that.<br /><br />The salon has a nice variety of K-cups: Folders, Wolfgang Puck, Timothy's, and Green Mountain (that owns Keurig).<br /><br />Everyone's taste vary, but here is my assessment of the ones that I have tried so far. Wolfgang Puck was my second favorite. So far, I like Folgers the best.<br /><br />FOLGERS GOURMET<br />SELECTIONS LIVELY COLOMBIAN<br />Price per cup: 69 cents (package of 36 for $25)<br />Earthy flavor, fruity and nutty flavors come through.<br /><br />WOLFGANG PUCK CHEFS RESERVE COLOMBIAN DARK ROAST<br />Price per cup: 69 cents (package of 48 for $32.98)<br />A dark roast with caramel and earthy notes, slight burnt<br />and papery flavors.<br /><br />TIMOTHY'S DECAFFEINATED COLOMBIAN MEDIUM<br />Price per cup: 60 cents (package of 50 for $30)<br />A bit on the weak side, kind of papery, and less astringent than the others.<br /><br />Ali Julia review"
,,,,,Delicious,"Delicious coffee, good medium blend.  Its hard to find something that isnt too weak or too bold with K-cups, but this flavor was perfect.  Will buy again."
,,,,,Good coffee,"Good flavor.  Coconut flavor is subtle and not overpowering.  In comparison, there is another coconut coffee by Green Mountain in which the coconut flavor is overdone in my opinion."
,,,,,...,"While good quality, it was not at all what I expected. It smelled like caramel and vanilla, but it tasted like straight black coffee. I was pretty disappointed."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Dark Roast,"The coffee is just OK, a little weak. The price is a little high and it is not worth the extra money."
,,,,,Very weak,I was surprised to find out how weak this coffee is.  It has a good flavor but even on half cup it is very weak.
,,,,,My favorite hazelnut coffee,"To me, this has a good, balanced flavor.  Some flavored K-cups seem too light on hazelnut, or too light on coffee.  This one is just right."
,,,,,"Smells good, tastes good!",This k-cup actually smelled up the office. And it tastes as good as it smells. I found it to be very flavorful.
,,,,,Jamica Me Crazy.....So Good!,"I was surprised to find out the coffee from my sampler had coconut in it.  I bought a sampler of k-cups to try different flavors and would sit aside the ones that I liked to order in the future.<br /><br />After drinking Jamaica Me Crazy not realizing the ingredients just knowing I liked it.  When ordering, reading through the reviews realized it had coconut in it and that was what made the taste so yummy, leaving me wanting more.  I was hesitant to buy but decided to go for it and am really glad I did.  Everyone I have shared my coffee surprise with loves it too."
,,,,,My favorite K-Cup yet!,"Light and flavorful definitely describes this K-Cup. I often find it hard to find flavored K-Cups that aren't either 1) so strong you lose the flavor or 2) so light you'd be better off drinking water. However, I have to admit I have found a new favorite in the Hawaiian Hazelnut!"
,,,,,First but not last time to buy this one!!,"I LOVED THIS COFFEE. I just got my order a few days ago and I normally drink just one cup of coffee in the morning......Now I can't wait and have had an afternoon cup, too. I must say....I look forward to getting up in the morning just because I know I'm having this coffee!! TAHT SAYS A LOT FOR A LTE SLEEPER!! Try this one!! I like it on thenext to highest setting on my Keurig....it has an awesome aroma while brewing and the taste is smooth, never bitter and there is something that 'hints' of a slight fruitiness with the first sips......then the end of the sip is just a perfect brew, too. Never any aftertaste or bitterness. I am so happy to have found this!! Thanks Wolfgang! I have now ALL of your kitchen gadgets cookware and now the coffee too!"
,,,,,Yum-o,Best K cup around. A must try!  Amazon ships quickly and in one piece. I'd recommend the coffee as well as going through Amazon to order this coffee from.  Thank you for a great experience.
,,,,,On sale,Usually do not get the breakfast blends but it was on sale and decided at price would try it out. It was not as weak as some breakfast blends tend to be. Not bad.
,,,,,Best Coffee,Wolfgang Puck definitely has the best coffee for the money.  I absolutely love the French Vanilla.  The KCup actually makes a good full cup of coffee.  it could be a tad stronger but overall it is really good.  I still prefer the Senseo Pods to the KCups though.
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy is our favorite K-Cup so far,"Jamaica Me Crazy has a slight overtone of cinnamon that is a very nice compliment to the taste of coffee.  The flavoring is strong enough to taste, not just smell, without overpowering the flavor of the coffee.  Very good."
,,,,,"IMO, perfect.",I drink my coffee with a splash of half-and-half.  Other hazelnut k-cups are too bland for me.  I much prefer Wolfgang Puck's excellent rich roast with definite -- but not overpowering -- hazelnut flavor.
,,,,,"Excellent smooth, light coffee.  Good anytime.","Definately not what I'd expected with the Wolfgang Puck name on it.  To me, Wolfgang Puck has conotations of a heavy, dark-roast European-style coffee.  I thought I'd already found my perfect coffee in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001D0GV68"">Timothy's World Coffee, Breakfast Blend for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a> but this one edges it out.  Smooth and balanced it really is great from the first sip till the last drop.<br /><br />There will never be a coffee that all coffee lovers will agree on but if you like a light-medium roast, give the Breakfast in Bed blend a try.  Very low in acidity, someone who can't tolerate the acidity in coffee may be able to enjoy this blend.  But, be aware and contrary to popular belief, light roast coffee is typically higher in caffine than the dark roast coffees, the extended roasting to produce a dark roast burns away some of the caffine. This one will definately get you going in the morning in a good way.<br /><br />Those who prefer a dark roast or extra bold should probably look elsewhere."
,,,,,Good taste but secretly  DECAF,Taste is good but in my opinion coffee that has been decaffinated should be required to have such info clearly visible warning in big red letters before I mistakenly rely upon it to get me going in the morning.  Small print on the bottom of the box (I mean 6 point font) tells this.  Several mornings of splitting headaches could have been avoided . . . this caused me to check several other flavors online and none of them say anything one way or another about caffeine. I don't know how to avoid this for other products but this info should be clearly stated on every coffee for sale.
,,,,,1 down 47 to go,Too bad no one else had reviewed this before my purchase. It's not bold or dark enough to stand up to the Keurig's 3rd button and tasted a little tangy for my liking.
,,,,,Wolfgand Puck Rodeo Drive K-cup,"This coffee says medium roast but is actually a little stronger.  We loved it and it has become our favorite.  If you want some coffee to ""caffeine you up"", this is the one for you!!  Also, Wolfgang Puck's Breakfast in Bed is great...not so strong!"
,,,,,Delicious,"I can't remember when I've had a cup of coffee so delicious, I immediately wanted another cup.  There is no bitter taste, no funny chemical taste you get with so many flavored coffees, no odd aftertaste.  It's just a mellow, gorgeous, hazelnut-with-a-touch-of-the-islands cup of coffee.  Outstanding.  My favorite I've ever tried, and I've tried most!"
,,,,,Not as good,"This is very good coffee, but it doesn't have as much flavor as the Van Houttes creme caramel.  If your looking for something that has a lot of flavor, go with the other.  If you are looking for something that is more coffee than flavor, this is it."
,,,,,I would buy it again,"By far,this is the best flavored K cup coffee I've ever had. Good body, not bitter, no flowery aroma (like with the Green Mountain flavored K cups). I like my coffee a little stronger than Puck's Hawaiian Hazelnut, but it is certainly a fine, medium bodied,coffee I could drink over and over."
,,,,,Smooth & Delish,These K cups are wonderful! We were pleasantly surprised with the low acidity and smooth flavor! The Rodeo Drive K cups are on our top five K Cup list!
,,,,,"Mmm, mm, great coffee aroma!","While looking for a top rated vanilla K-cup, I stumbled upon this combination flavored cup that was rated higher than any of the vanilla flavored cups at that time.  I took a chance and ordered a double pack from Amazon and was pleasantly surprised. This is a rich tasting medium/light roasted flavor that appeals to several coffee drinkers at our house. There is a hint of built in sweetness so that additional sweeteners are not necessary for those of us who don't care for super sweet coffee. I would classify this as a medium roast and tastes best with the medium sized cup selections on our Keurig Coffee Brewer<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GTR2F6"">Keurig B-70 B70 Platinum Single-Cup Home Brewing System</a>. People who prefer extra bold coffees would need to use two of these K-cups to make one extra large travel mug of coffee.<br />  That said, we have found that mixing this flavor with other flavors to make an extra large serving is a most enjoyable pastime at our house. The most popular combo's so far are Jamaica me Crazy with <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00395DVQS"">Van Houtte French Vanilla K-Cups for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count Boxes (Pack of 2)</a>, Hazlenut<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00395574M"">Van Houtte Hazelnut Decaffeinated K-Cups for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count Boxes (Pack of 2)</a> or Costa Rican<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HKZZ4I"">Van Houtte Caf&eacute;, Costa Rica Tarrazu (Light Roast), 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>. In the end, This is one of the most versatile flavors for those of us who have frequent visitors and several palettes to please."
,,,,,"Yum!  Rich, strong, and not bitter.",Bought this during one of Amazon's Friday Sales.  Did not find too many reviews since these are fairly new.  Took a chance and am very pleased.  We like our coffee rich and strong and this one delivers.  Great tasting dark roast coffee!
,,,,,Yummy hazelnut,This coffee is surprisingly delicious. We never had a problem with the k-cups bursting; maybe it is a defect on the coffee brewer..? This coffee is a bit less strong than we normally prefer our coffee but it makes up with great taste. Look forward to my mug every morning. Would definitely recommend it and will buy it again.
,,,,,Coffee,"I personally did not care for the coffee, too mild for me and a little ""nutty"" flavor in it.  I will stick with Tully's Kona and House blends, also Emeril's Big Easy bold."
,,,,,great,Exact same as the ones bought at the store only a lot cheaper. Recommended for any Keurig drinkers out there.
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut,This is my #1 favorite coffee. Blending of hazelnut and coconut are perfect.  Thank you!!<br /><br />Question:  why was I charged postage on this brand when I have never paid on any other brand of K-Cups from Amazon
,,,,,Best flavor available!,If you like your Keurig you need to try this K-cup.  Smooth taste with just a slight hint of flavor.  Not overwhelming like some brands.  My new favorite.
,,,,,Favorite Of The Keurig Coffee K-cups,"This is our favorite k-cup coffee, it is strong - and taste great (although it seems that many of the k-cups) have nearly the same overall taste..."
,,,,,coffee lover,"More than a ""hint"" of coconut! Not very much vanilla. Being a vanilla fan and NOT a coconut fan - this is OK."
,,,,,Works for me.,"This is a good tasting K-cup from a guy who drinks coffee black and prefers a bold, full flavored taste. I would recommend."
,,,,,You don't have to look any further,"I love using K Cups!  Although I have tried so many ""bad"" coffees.  I have finally hit on one dark roast coffee that isn't bitter and has a wonderful flavor.  You don't have to try them all, this is a perfect blend coffee."
,,,,,"Should be titled ""best flavored coffee ever!""","Ok - so this is the best flavored coffee ever.  No after taste that seems to always occur w/flavored coffees & its not even really flavored, it has hint of coconut taste but it really still tastes like coffee just the best coffee ever... mmmmmm... add honey.. yummy!!!!!<br />Highly recommend!"
,,,,,my very fav k cup coffee!,Wolfgang puck k cups are under the radar - their coffees are smooth and delicious and Jamaica Me Crazy is my fav and the best coconut flavored coffee on the market. Island coconut is quite poor in comparison.
,,,,,Perfect blend,"I've always hated the Peete's or Starbucks burnt-bitter taste. This is a great blend, still strong without the burn roasting.<br /><br />FYI, low quality beans are burned to hide it's bad taste."
,,,,,Excellent Brew,"I like the darker roast coffees and this fits the bill.  This is every bit as good as Deidrich and Tulley's but typically costs more.  I guess Wolkgang wants a cut.  If you catch it on sale, buy it."
,,,,,Pretty Good,"This coffee is a lot like the Green Mountain Nantucket blend.  If you like that, you'll like this.  Generally, the GM product costs less, but this was on sale."
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy Coffee,"It was as good, if not better, than I was told!  Great taste!  I will puchase it again."
,,,,,"I don't enjoy this ""coffee""",Probably because it doesn't taste like coffee.  It is flavorless.  I saw the good reviews and thought I'd get a couple boxes and now I'm stuck with a bunch of k cups that I don't want to drink because I'd rather literally drink any other k cup I've ever tried.  As you can see I'm not a fan of these k cups.  These are the worst ever.
,,,,,If there were no other coffee in the house,"...I will drink this if all other coffee options are exhausted. The coffee has a vanilla/coconut smell but after a sip or two, I can't drink it. Would not purchase again and I'm having trouble even giving it away. I expected more from Wolfgang Puck."
,,,,,caramel,"I love caramel and was excited when this arrived. But I AM SO DISAPPOINTED. Hardly any flavor at all, of coffee or caramel"
,,,,,Unremarkable,"First, let me say that I prefer extra-bold K-Cup coffees and only occasionally drink a medium blend, and never decaf. I bought three Wolfgang Puck coffees several months ago: Rodeo Drive Blend; French Roast; and Sumatra Kopi Raya. All three are quite drinkable, though they do not measure up to a few of the extra-bold blends from Coffee People: Kona Blend; Organic Blend; Jet Fuel; and Black Tiger. Even better than these, though, is my new favorite, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003M7TTYG"">Green Mountain's Revv</a>. Those who prefer a strong, dark cup of coffee (even at the larger mug setting) should try that brand.<br /><br />Previously, I had found the dark-roast Green Mountain coffees rather boring, but Revv lives up to the hype, both in strength and flavor. Another great Green Mountain coffee is their Espresso Blend (though Amazon doesn't stock it, so the prices tend to be higher here than in brick-and-mortar stores such as Bed Bath and Beyond). Finally, a favorite regular over the years has been <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004M5W7YQ"">Emeril's Big Easy Bold</a>. It's a very nice coffee, though don't expect the New Orleans experience of chicory flavor.<br /><br />Bottom line: You won't go wrong with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but for my taste they do not stand out among the available bold coffees."
,,,,,Unremarkable,"First, let me say that I prefer extra-bold K-Cup coffees and only occasionally drink a medium blend, and never decaf. I bought three Wolfgang Puck coffees several months ago: Rodeo Drive Blend; French Roast; and Sumatra Kopi Raya. All three are quite drinkable, though they do not measure up to a few of the extra-bold blends from Coffee People: Kona Blend; Organic Blend; Jet Fuel; and Black Tiger. Even better than these, though, is my new favorite, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003M7TTYG"">Green Mountain's Revv</a>. Those who prefer a strong, dark cup of coffee (even at the larger mug setting) should try that brand.<br /><br />Previously, I had found the dark-roast Green Mountain coffees rather boring, but Revv lives up to the hype, both in strength and flavor. Another great Green Mountain coffee is their Espresso Blend (though Amazon doesn't stock it, so the prices tend to be higher here than in brick-and-mortar stores such as Bed Bath and Beyond). Finally, a favorite regular over the years has been <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004M5W7YQ"">Emeril's Big Easy Bold</a>. It's a very nice coffee, though don't expect the New Orleans experience of chicory flavor.<br /><br />Bottom line: You won't go wrong with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but for my taste they do not stand out among the available bold coffees."
,,,,,Excellent coffee,This is an excellent full-bodied coffee without a bitter taste. In general the Wolfgang Puck coffees are quite good although a little more expensive than some of the other K-Cups.
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy K-Cups,"As always, I LOVE this coffee, it's about the only kind I buy for myself.  The turn around time is terrific.  When I have about a week's worth of cups left, I order and have the next batch in perfect timing.  Very happy with everything about this product."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Keurig Cup Coffee,"This coffee is a smooth, yet robust taste that does not have any bad after<br />taste. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXJJ28"">Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Rodeo Drive Blend (Medium Roast), 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>"
,,,,,Just Right Anytime of Day!,"I have tried many brands of medium roast coffees however, this is my favorite. Some I've tried are bitter; some are too light; some are too strong; but this one for me is just right! Some brands more than others come in all puffed up and when punctured, the grounds filter out into the needle of the Keurig coffee maker and has to be cleaned which isn't difficult, just annoying. Never had a problem with these.  Breakfast in Bed k-cups are smooth, not too light and not too strong, right smack in the midddle. No bitter after taste either and perfect any time of day. Enjoy!"
,,,,,"Great, smooth-tasting coffee!","Sometimes we have a problem ordering the k-cups because they are way too strong for us--even if you order medium blend.  This coffee was great--just right!  It was a smooth blend, and was perfect for a morning cup of coffee--or anytime!  Would definitely order again!"
,,,,,Either I got a bad batch or....,"...or the good reviewers' taste buds are weak.  This is some disappointingly<br />weak coffee.  I'm not some crazy ""gotta have my jet black sludge to get<br />through the day"" coffee drinker - I'd say my favorite (and my wife's) is<br />Caribou Blend.  This blend is WEAK, it can't hold half-and-half or even<br />just whole milk without being wiped out.  Now, I will say I brew it on<br />the ""large cup"" (9.25 oz, I believe) setting on our Keurig, so maybe it's<br />a bit better on the 8oz setting, or even the small setting.  But Caribou (we<br />also like Donut Shop, Green Mountain Kona Blend 10%, etc.) can be easily<br />brewed on 9.25 and hold a good bold taste.  This coffee doesn't<br />hold a CANDLE to any of those.  Now I'm stuck with 40+ of these. Blech...maybe<br />the guests won't mind it! :)"
,,,,,Great flavor,"Good description of this product. Has the over roasted popular coffee flavor, but, not overpowering. One of my favorites so far."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Sumatra,I ordered this by accident and I'm so happy I did. This is a new favorite of mine. It's nice and strong without being bitter.
,,,,,"Not Bad! Smooth, Not Bitter, Plenty Strong But Not Too Strong.","NOTE: This one is better for me at the smallest cup setting, which makes it stronger.<br /><br />This is my first time to try Wolfgang Puck coffee. I have mixed feelings about it so far. The Rodeo Drive Blend is a little more 'bland' than I'm used to, which is great for people who prefer that. It's just a different taste, which is good or not-so-good, depending on each person's preference. Personally, ever so often I take a sip of Rodeo Drive Blend and think that it almost tasted like dishwater. Then that goes away and I enjoy the rest of the cup of coffee. I think that reaction is because it isn't as strong and bold as I'm used to, but it's pretty good. I can see that some people might make this their favorite because it is different.<br /><br />Will I buy this again? No. It's good, but it's not my preference, and I might as well buy the ones that make me rave on and on about how good they are, usually Tully's French, Kona, Italian, and House. Those may be too strong for some people, and the Rodeo Drive Blend does have its own unique taste which may really appeal to some coffee drinkers. As with most things, actually a little more than in most things, with coffee, it's a matter of taste and probably a matter of what you are in the habit of drinking. You may want to try this one, especially if you can find it in a sample packet, or do like I do, keep the rest for guests to try."
,,,,,"Great coffee, problematic k-cups!","I really love this coffee, great tasting and bold.  However, on about 1/3rd of the pods, the foil separates from the cup and blows grounds into the brewer and my coffee cup.  I can usually predict which ones will do it because the foil on the k-cup is not puffy like it has pressure, but flat and wrinkled."
,,,,,Didn't say anywhere it was coconut favored!,"It's coconut flavored, either you'll like it or not.  I was actually surprised since I'm not a big fan of coconut, but I liked this coffee.  Not my favorite, but nice on occasion."
,,,,,bought this for a friend,"My friend says she loves this coffee and has never been able to find it in the local stores where we live.  Aha, she did not know that Amazon sells just about anything you could want - no tax and free shipping.  What could be better."
,,,,,yum,"hazelnut being the household favorite favorite, I thought I'd give these k-cups a try. The flavor is smooth and delightful. I suggest trying this brand for your k-cup machine!"
,,,,,Wish I were in Hawaii,"This is good, but could be a bit stronger in the Hazelnut flavor. It is good though and I would purchase it again."
,,,,,Poor quality Kcups,I love the taste but have found that many of the cups explode!!  The glue on the side of the cup becomes undone and then the cup explodes.  Very hard to clean up.  Do not think I will buy this brand again!
,,,,,Great coffee,"I love Jamaica Me Crazy coffee. This version is flavorful, the price is pretty good, and it sure beats the office pot coffee that sits on a burner for hours. Fresh coffee, fast!"
,,,,,A little too much bitterness & acid,"This is less of a ""bold"" flavor and more of an acidic and bitter coffee. My wife is easy to please and she's not a fan. I'll finish the box but I reach of others first."
,,,,,A Good Daily Roast,"This coffee has become one of my daily favorites.  It's not quite as strong as many of the french roasts, but it's also not as bitter.  A good way to start the day."
,,,,,One of the best for Puck k-cups.,"This is my favorite so far amongst the Wolfgang Puck K-Cups. The word that comes to mind when i sip it is ""Bright"". It has a natural sweetness and good flavor, without being overly heavy. The packaging lists it as a Medium Roast, but i'd put it more towards the light end of the spectrum. It's a very enjoyable cup, and i'd recommend if you are looking for something to switch up with Green Mountian's popular Vermont Country Blend or Breakfast Blend.<br /><br />I generally haven't been impressed with the Wolfgang Puck flavored varieties (Vanilla Francaie, Jamaica me Crazy), but this regular cup is quite good."
,,,,,One of my favorites!,"I have had all of the various Keurigs since they came on the market for home use. Thus,I have tried pretty near all of the various k-cups. This is one of my top 5 favorites. Love the coconut in it, and the wonderful coffee flavor. YUM!!!!"
,,,,,Very satisfied with my purchase as always with Amazon,This coffee was not what I expected but enjoyed it greatly.  I was looking for a stronger vanilla flavor but after trying it I enjoyed it a lot. It was light and smooth and left no aftertaste.  I would recommend this to others.
,,,,,A bolder Columbian,"I like Columbian coffee and this is above average with a good dark color with a nice smell.  The taste is bolder than average but not unpleasant or bitter.  This is my ""strong"" Columbian coffee combining all the good things of the type with a bolder taste."
,,,,,I liked it,smooth.  I normally drink dark roasts but purchased this on a lightning deal (or maybe a friday sale).  I like it.
,,,,,Just OK coffee.,"The coffee is just OK. It's very mild, almost bordering on weak. Would buy it again if the price was right."
,,,,,Great Coffee,I've tried every bold k-cup and this is one is one of my favorites.  Very nice flavor and strength.
,,,,,Jamaca me flavorful,"Bought this on the recommendation of my son.  Not a big fan of flavored coffee, but a cup a day of this lightly flavored coconut coffee puts me in the islands.  How can you go wrong with Wolfgang Puck?"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Sumatra,This coffee says Dark Roast & Extra Bold and.... IT ISN'T! It's weak and barely beats out a cup of Folgers.
,,,,,Above average K-cup coffee,"We have a Keurig coffee maker. One of the side benefits is the opportunity to experiment with different K-cups. I have already tried half a score. Some seem pretty tasty at first--until one taste something that is even better. Some early K-cups that I graded highly don't compare too well with later brands that I have tried.<br /><br />Wolfgang Puck's Columbian Dark Roast Noir is one of the better products that I have tried. It has a bold taste, although not strongly so. It is also smooth tasting.<br /><br />It is now on my short list of possibilities for my first morning cup of coffee. So, I am pretty happy with Wolfgang Puck's product here."
,,,,,Jamica Me Crazy,"This is my favorite coffee flavor and I have not had it in a long time.  Forgot how delicious it was until we ordered the k-cups.  Love them, already ordered more."
,,,,,"Nice rich flavor, good cup of coffee","We've only been using the k-cups about 2 months.  Both my wife and I like our coffee bold.  I've been guided by amazon reviews and started out with Coffee People's Jet Fuel.  Although that is still my favorite, I got this French Roast on a Friday sale and would say that it's my new second choice.  I have also tried Coffee People's Black Tiger (a close third) and Kona (not a fan).  This is a nice, well-rounded every-day cup, more on the bold side but not wincingly so."
,,,,,"Good flavor, but bad pod quality","The flavor of this coffee is good, it has a nice balance of Vanilla without being too strong.  It's not the boldest coffee, but it's a nice afternoon treat.<br /><br />That being said, I have had problems with several pods.  When you hold them up to the light, you can see that there are grounds outside of the filter portion of the pod.  This causes a cup full of grounds when you brew the coffee, and also clogs up the pin at the bottom of the pod chamber.  I'd say about 1 out of every 5 or 6 pods has this problem."
,,,,,Grounds for not ordering again,I love the taste of this coffee but in my last order of four boxes about every other K-cup has a tear or rip in the internal filter and thus the grounds flow through into the cup of coffee which wastes the value of the coffee as drinkable.  Wolfgang needs to correct this flaw in packaging.  I will not order again because of the waste.
,,,,,K CUP WOLFGANG PUCK,I bought this coffee for my Keurig coffee maker and I really like it. Smooth  and the best thing it is an organic. Wolfgang uses the the best beans for his coffee's. Buy you will be pleasantly surprised.
,,,,,"Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Vienna Coffee House","great tasting coffee. strong, but not obnoxiously strong and no nasty aftertaste. too bad, it cannot be purchased on subscribe and save anymore."
,,,,,wake up to deliciousness,This is the best all around 1st cup in the morning coffee ever!  I love it.  Perfect flavor.
,,,,,Breakfast...,By far the tastiest coffee I have purchased from Amazon.  Sorry it isn't in the Shop and Save any longer.  Delicious!!!
,,,,,Fave K-cup French Roast,"Love this blend, so was delighted to find it on your ""Subscribe & Save"" program (at a better price<br />than w/Keurig.  So REALLY disappointed to learn today it was no longer available on said program.<br />Shame on manufacturerer!"
,,,,,Very nice taste,"I have tried about 25 different K-Cup flavors, and this is my favorite.  It has a wonderful aroma, and just the right amount of Hazelnut.  Use the subscribe option, and this is a deal that can't be beat."
,,,,,Not as sweet as other French Vanilla coffees,"I admit, I like my French Vanilla coffee to be heavy on the vanilla side.  This isn't.  It's a much stronger coffee brew, meaning more sugar and creamer is needed to tone down the coffee flavor.  On the other hand, it's a reasonable alternative if my preferred brand (Van Houtte) isn't on sale or when it's occasionally out of stock.  I like that it comes in a 2-pack because our family goes through a lot of k-cups and I don't have to order quite so often."
,,,,,"Great Coffee, Great Price",I buy these with subscribe and save.  I like the flavor and aroma.  Going on month two and I am not tired of them yet!
,,,,,What I've Been Looking For,"I was very excited when I received a Keurig coffee maker as a Christmas present, & couldn't wait to put it to use.  However, in the three months since I've had it, I have struggled to find what I think is a good cup of coffee.  Most of the brands I've tried have either been too weak or too strong.<br /><br />I am not a ""Starbucks"" kind of coffee drinker, or fan of fancy flavored coffees.  I just like a regular cup of coffee that smells good when it's brewing, & tastes smooth when I drink it.  Finally, just like Goldilocks said, this one is ""just right""."
,,,,,Yum  but weak,One of the weaker flavored coffees but a yummy one.  Almost no need for milk as it is already creamy tasting.
,,,,,For true coffee lovers,"This coffee is awesome.  Kinda bold, with a sweetness.  Excellent my son says with International's Carmel Macchiado creamer you can find in the dairy section."
,,,,,great coffee,The coffee was great. Spent some time in Jamaica and got to love the coffee. Nice to get in back home as well.
,,,,,Very Good Coffee,"I got this with the purchase of 24 different bold coffee k-cups to find the ones I like best, and so far this is my favorite. It may not be bold enough for some, but it is not supposed to compete with the 'extra bold' varieties. This was smooth and not nearly as bitter as many bold coffees. So many bold blends have a 'burned' flavor, leaving a bad taste in your mouth, this one was strong without the bad aftertaste, perfect for me!"
,,,,,Good k-cup,I like full-bodied coffee and to try something different to supplement the standard one I use.  This coffee was perfect for that purpose. Timothy's Rainforest Expresso is still my standard one...but I will order this again.
,,,,,Rich and wonderful,"Creme Caramel is by far my newest favorite!  Great coffee flavor, not too weak, with a wonderful caramel aroma!"
,,,,,Great Coffee !,"I drink alot of coffee and love hazelnut coffee, this brand has the best flavor I have ever tasted. I have bought several different brands and this one is the BEST! It may be a few dollars more but it is worth it. I absolutely love and enjoy it every morning."
,,,,,Can't find the perfect Creme' Brl&eacute;e Coffee!,"10 years ago my daughter brought home Creme' Brulee' for the first time. It was perfect, beans to be ground.  Since then I have searched for ANYTHING similar. When I realized I couldn't find it, she had forgotten what one she purchased.<br /><br />This one has a strong flavor, but it tastes fake with a strong after taste. Unfortunately it is one of the better ones.  If anyone reads this and knows what ones (Carmel and Vanilla), taste great, please post here."
,,,,,"Yummy coffee, not a fan of coffee grinds though!!","I REALLY like the taste of this coffee! My only complaint is that the coffee grinds end up in my coffee. Not a huge fan of that and even though I really like the taste of it I will not order again, bummer!! =("
,,,,,My Favorite Coffee,"My favorite, I have it auto shipped through Amazon. The only problem I have is I drink way too much coffee now because I like it so much."
,,,,,One of my favorite K-cups,This is one of my favorite K-cups.  It's a rich dark coffee without the bitterness of some.  Highly recommended.
,,,,,OK,I thought the coffee tasted fine.  It was not strong enough for my husband.  Several of the pods burst during brewing.  I probably won't purchase this again.
,,,,,Scrumptious!,This is my favorite of the flavored coffees. I am not usually a fan of coconut but this coffee is deliciously coconutty-chocolaty! Love it!
,,,,,My New Favorite,"Yummy, mild, and delicious. My new favorite! Mild in comparision to coffees called ""rocket fuel"" and taste like motor oil, but truly a medium roast. Pleasant in the morning. Makes you glad to have a good cup of coffee."
,,,,,Great flavored coffee,Wolfgang Puck coffees are great and the Creme Caramel is one of my favorites. I would recommend this coffee for people who like a mild flavor.
,,,,,Decent coffee but I wasnt wowed!,I thought that because of the name attached that I would be wow-ed...its just a good average coffee nothing spectacular.
,,,,,Horrible: did something happen?,I bought this coffee because several people who also liked my favorite (Jet Fuel or Emeril's Big Intense Bold) liked this one. Typically Sumatra is one of my favorite coffees as well.<br /><br />I am wondering if they made a bad batch or gave it the wrong label.<br />It is **NOT** bold.  It is extremely mild and smoky tasting.  Not a single member of my family liked it and that's very unusual.<br /><br />I'm going to contact the company to see if they'll exchange it or refund me.  It is THAT bad.
,,,,,Misleading Flavor Name,"As coffee in general, this Wolfgang variety was alright. However, I was expecting a ""Creme Caramel"" taste, or something similar, and I don't feel this delivered. I tried multiple cups at different cup sizes and this coffee just didn't do it for me. It is marketed as a flavored coffee, yet I could not taste anything beyond the flavor of coffee."
,,,,,yummy,"I prefer mild to medium coffee and I've tried so many different k-cups but I'll stay with this one the other reviews were right on , smooth and not any bitterness. Just a great cup of joe. With amazon prime it came super fast, if you're not a prime member I strongly recommend it."
,,,,,Cups Can Be Defective,"This is a good French roast coffee, although it could be a little bolder. I've never before had a k cup dump the contents into my cup. It's extremely irritating to deal with grounds in the cup and machine when deliberately choosing a system that avoids the mess."
,,,,,love the dark rich flavor,I am having a blast with my new Keurig machine - trying out a bunch of new flavors including the Dark Roast. It's nice and flavorful - particularly since I run each of my cups through the small cup brewing cycle 2 times to fill my large mug.  This works.<br />Tried the chocolate donut flavor the other day and loved it.<br />Love the convenience and bargain prices of the subscribe & save.
,,,,,Very good cup of coffee,"I am impressed with Mr Puck's different blends, this one is a favorite of ours. It lives up to the ""medium roast"" name, full bodied, not acidic and smells great while brewing, will buy again."
,,,,,Great Deal!,Great Deal - GREAT turnaround!  What a difference from other orders I have placed with other vendors!  Got the package the day after I ordered it!
,,,,,Best Coffee Ever!,"If you like vanilla flavored coffee, this is it!! I put a french vanilla creamer in and no other sweetner is needed. I have it every day and I'll always order ahead so I don't run out."
,,,,,High Rating!,"This coffee is Bold and none of the bitterness that is usually found in bold coffee's.  It also scored exeptional in the single serve coffee ratings and I concur.  There is a lot of dreck out there in K-Cups, this and Wolfgang Puck's Hawaiian Hazelnut are great!"
,,,,,Not my favorite,"I got this is a low cost alternative to my normal Jet Fuel and it just didn't measure up. I like strong coffee but this had a bitter taste that I just didn't care for. Also, 3 of the cups had some sort of malfunction and dumped their grinds into my cup-not sure why."
,,,,,Very tasty.,Very smooth and flavorful for a medium roast.  I was pleasantly surprised by this k cup and would get it again. The 25% off deal drew me to it and I'm glad.
,,,,,Not much flavor to this coffee...,"This coffee is not a true medium roast like Caribou French Roast, Donut House, etc. there was not much coffee flavor at all. I found it to be so weak in flavor that not only did I have to go down a brew size, but I also have to add less milk just too drink it. I will never buy it again. Wish I didn't have 45 more cups to go thru!"
,,,,,Wolf Gang's Kcup Breakfast Blend a Sleeper,"I ordered Wolf Gang Puck's k cups, largely because of his reputation and my experiences at his restaurants, both of which are good. However, when I drank my first cup of the Breakfast Blend, I tasted no coffee...it was as if I was drinking hot water. I was very disappointed and will purchase only those k cups which I know to be good. Sorry Wolf Gang, this is a sleeper!"
,,,,,Great brew,"This is my favorite of all the coffees I've tried. Smooth and flavorful without being a flavored coffee, its a definite treat anytime of day."
,,,,,A bit of a disappointment.,"I was expecting a mellow caramel flavor, but this coffee is a bit sharp and you really can't make out any carmel flavor."
,,,,,Strong Dark Roast Coffee,"This is about the strongest K cup I've purchased.  I like my coffee strong, and before buying a K cup coffee maker, always purchased French roast whole bean and brewed strong coffee.  Brewing this in a K cup machine at an 8 ounce cup will definately provide you with a strong cup of coffee.  Since I brew a cup for my wife and I at the same time, I run two 8 ounce cups with one of these K cups into a small decanter, and then pour into two coffee cups, which still yields a strong flavor, but not enough pop your eyeballs out...<br /><br />Of course, brewing two cups with one K cup drops the price down in half, which at less than thirty cents a cup is on the cheap end of K cup brewing.  I find most K cups are good for up to a 12 ounce cup, and 16 ounces would weaken them too much...  But this works for my wife and I since I have been fixing a cup for each of us for years, and brewing two cups with one K cup is economical."
,,,,,So weak!,"I am only drinking it, so it won't be wasted, and I have to rotate it with a Coffee People product, so I remember why I like coffee.  It is really wan. The strongest flavor profile is tin.  I love creme caramel and am a huge WP fan, but the flavor strenth and consistancy of this coffee does not impress. Choose another - you won't be sorry you did."
,,,,,Too bitter and smoky,"My favorite coffees are the big dark roasts like French, Italian, and Full City.  This K-cup dark roast has a big, bold flavor, but lacks balance.  The level of smokiness, bitterness, and acid are way too high, and the result is not enjoyable.  I liked the dark roasts. for the Keurig from Green Mt, Newman, and Donut Shop much more than this one."
,,,,,Yummo!!,"I want this coffee in bed every morning, just like it's name ""Breakfast in Bed"".  I ordered this 24/2 box shipment on the automatic 2 months plan.  I used it up way before the next shipment so I changed the plan to every month.  Now is looks like it's out of stock.....ugh....I hope it comes back soon.  It is a delicious choice!"
,,,,,taste,"This product takes getting used to.  Only after using about 3 K-cups did I start liking it.  However, I wouldn't buy this many again."
,,,,,My new favorite kcup,I'm loving this coffee!! It's smooth and bold but not too bold. It reminds me of starbucks coffee but not as bitter. Very very very good cup of coffee. Give it a try. I'm really glad I did.
,,,,,Weak coffee - little flavor!,I love Wolfgang Puck products but the coffee is very disappointing.<br />There is a weak flavor - almost tastes diluted!<br />Some troll must have changed out all the real Puck products!<br />Libbie
,,,,,Defective,This is the 1st K-cup coffee that I am getting grounds in my coffee. It is occuring about every 3 cups. I have not had this problem with other K cup manufactures. I will not reorder.
,,,,,Better than Donut Shop!,"Until I tried Vienna Coffee House, Donut Shop was the one I had on automatic monthly delivery.  Vienna Coffee House is a tad bolder than Donut Shop but very smooth without any bitterness.  From the first cup, I knew I had to switch."
,,,,,Favorite K-Cup,"Of all the K-Cups I have purchased so far, I like this French Roast the best. It has a really bold taste even used with the large-cup button. I like other coffee selections too, but this one really stands out.<br /><br />I consider myself an early adapter and the Keurig coffee machine is one of my best purchases. Although the coffee is somewhat expensive at $.40-.50 a cup, there is no waste, no pot cleanup, and, best of all, great coffee. I usually get up earlier than the rest of the household and can have my great coffee almost instantly without making a full pot that can go sour before all being drank.<br /><br />I notice that regular retailers such as Target and grocery stores are now carrying K-Cups, but buying online costs less and is more convenient. pjs"
,,,,,"Good quality, one of my ""go to"" flavored k-cups","I don't drink a lot of flavored k-cups, but people have been raving about Wolfgang Puck's k-cups, so I gave this a try. It's definitely a good quality flavored coffee with a medium body. Overall, I have enjoyed several cups of this and have temporarily shelved my Timothy flavored k-cups in favor of this one. I sometimes add sugar free vanilla syrup, cream, and cinnamon. It's excellent that was in place of dessert. I also tried caramel syrup added to this... don't do it. It overwhelms the flavor."
,,,,,Good medium strength coffee,I love coffee with no bitterness and lots of good coffee taste and this one fits the bill. Holds up well to milk & sugar-I love it in the morning for the first cup and in the evening just as much. Definitely would buy it again.
,,,,,Ew.,I bought a 24 pack of this an drank almost all of them before realizing what the flavor reminded me of. It tastes like hotdog water.
,,,,,"My Favorite, so far!","I love, love, love, this coffee.  It's easy on my stomach yet it has a rich medium roasted flavor which, in my opinion is not bland at all.  It's such a delicious cup of coffee.  I have told everyone about these, I've even converted Green Mountain lovers over to Wolfgang Puck Rodeo Drive brand.  If you like your coffee fully flavorful and delicious, but not too robust or bold, this coffee is for you.  I have tried MANY K-cup brands, Tully's, Green Mountain, Emeril's, Donut Shop, etc... and this brand is equal to Green Mountain, possibly even a bit BETTER. :)"
,,,,,Just blah...,"It seems the flavor selection on Amazon has been limited these days to some variation of hazelnut, french vanilla or chocolate so when I saw this one, I thought I'd give it a try.  Never having had Wolfgang Puck's k-cups, I was hoping they'd be as good as the Wolfgang Puck coffee I've had in hotel coffeemakers that were a part of my room but alas, I was mistaken. I wouldn't say it's the worst I've had but the flavor is pretty weak and the coffee itself is too.  I feel like I'm drinking coffee that's been made with grounds that have already been perked.  In other words - the flavor seems to be already squeezed out of them and I'm getting leftovers.<br /><br />If you're looking for a weakly flavored coffee that doesn't really taste like much of anything, this is your pod.  If you're looking for better, richer flavors, stick with Green Mountain which sadly Amazon doesn't seem to carry anymore except through third party vendors who want to charge $60 for a box!"
,,,,,Delicious! Amazing for a decaf coffee.,This is a fantastic decaf coffee. My parents love decaf but there aren't many out there they enjoy. We've been drinking Timothy's decaf Colombian and we bought this to try it. Fantastic! I would definitely buy this again and again. It's smooth and not bitter. It's not super strong so don't expect it to be like a cappacino. This is a really great Colombian cup of coffee. You won't miss the caffiene.
,,,,,Great cup of coffee,I like my coffe of the milder but tasteful side.  I thought this was a great cup of coffe I compare it to Timothy's dounut shoppe.  Full flavor but not acid.  This is for people who want a lighter cup of coffee
,,,,,Never again,I tried a double boxes of this when the Donut Shop  coffee I usually order was unavailable.  While the coffee is pretty good the cups suck.  A full 1/3 of the cups brewed are undrinkable.  They are slow to brew(coffee maker has to work very hard) and even then the cup retains an inordinate amount of water.  Checking some of the cups that left grounds in the brew showed that the filter was not properly installed.  They could sell these at half the price listed and you still would pay too much due to all the wasted coffee.  I believe we all have experienced a defective cup here or there but these are way beyond acceptable.
,,,,,Love it!,Jamican Me Crazy is the best coffee.  It is not too strong and has a unique taste.  No complaints here.  Highly recommend it.
,,,,,It's okay but I won't buy it again.,I like bold coffees and should have trusted the other reviewer who said it wasn't strong enough. This one has a watery finish to it and not very much flavor.  I'll be going back to Emeril's Jazz'd Up Decaf and trying the Coffee People's French Roast Decaf.  So far I've loved everything by the coffee people except the organic blend.  If you like strong coffee don't buy this but if you like a weaker coffee that you can see through you'd probably enjoy this one.
,,,,,One of the best flavored k-cups,This not only tastes great but has the best aroma while brewing. Subscribe and save is the way to go.
,,,,,Great Taste!,"I love this coffee!  I am not a strong coffee drinker and this coffee is perfect!  I have no problems with it working in my Cuisinart Keurig Brewer, I aways get the perfect tasting cup of coffee.<br /><br />I gave it 3 stars because one of the 2 packs contained only 13 K-Cups and not the 24 that it was supposed to have.<br /><br />The decaf 24-count (pack of 2) arrived with the correct amount of K-cups and is as yummy as the high test!"
,,,,,coffee pod,trying out different pods and this is a delicious one. service was excellent. no hassle at all. will buy from again
,,,,,"Interesting flavor, brew small cup","I wasn't sure what to expect with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but I am pleased.<br /><br />The Sorrento is a good medium roast.  It is a bit darker of a roast than some of the other mediums out in Keurig-land, but it isn't bitter.  There's just a little of something chocolatey in the flavor.<br /><br />My only complaint is that this coffee, like most of the Keurig cups that don't say ""extra bold"" on them, they brew up pretty weak if you do a larger mug.  I typically brew the 9.25 oz size, and on these guys I bumped it down to the 7.25 oz size.  If I brew it in the larger cups, it just comes out too weak.<br /><br />If you are one who feels that K-cups usually make weak coffee, you will think that these are really weak, and be tempted to brew 'em two at a time.  This coffee is not plain or unflavorvful -- there's just less coffee in the K-cup (or rather the normal, not extra-bold amount), so it brews up weaker."
,,,,,Nice flavour,"I like this coffee, its nice to drink it in the morning. It has medium body and full flavour. Goes great with raw sugar and splash of non fat milk."
,,,,,yuck,This was the nastiest flavored coffee I have ever had in kcups. I purchase many different kinds of flavored coffee and caramel is my favorite but this one made me gag. It smelled like buttery cheese and the taste was not what I expected. I will stick to gloria jeans and timothys flavored coffees. This was my first wolfgang puck kcup and will be the last I order of his brand. I thought maybe I got a bad cup but I brewed 3 and I opened the other box and tried those since it comes with two boxes and same nastiness.
,,,,,wonderful flavored coffee,"I'm a sucker for caramel anything.........love the flavor, the aroma, and most important the taste.  I honestly do not like flavored coffees in the morning, but I have made an exception for this one!"
,,,,,Good N Strong,"I am trying many different coffees to see which one's I like best. This coffee was good, but a little stronger than I had expected. I know it say's extra bold, but others I've tried have not been that ""extra"". I ended up putting it on my larger cup setting and it was perfect then. There was a little after taste, but not much more than other coffees. I would recommend it if you like stronger coffees, but it is not as strong as an espresso. I intend to purchase this again."
,,,,,Tasted like bitter oranges,"I thought it had a bitter orange flavor, however my husband and friend liked it."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Sorrento K-cups,"We have tried just about every k-cup of regular coffee out there.  We don't do the flavor kind.  My husband loves the GM brand most of the coffees are mild (even when they say medium roast)...I go for a little more on the medium roast like the some of the Tully's and Caribou brands.  It used to be that we were always ordering the same brands, once we liked a certain one.  But I ventured to try the Wolfgang Puck line.  While this flavor is touted as a medium roast, it seems to be more on the bold side with a little bitterness.  It is still not a bad coffee, just not as good as the ""Rodeo Drive"" or ""Breakfast in Bed"" k-cups which has no bitterness.  I must say though, we have now added the latter 2 flavors of Wolfgang to our buying ritual."
,,,,,smooth/rich,I like a dark rich coffee and this is a tad different.  It seems much smoother and<br />I tend to nearly crave it when I have a slightly acid stomach.  It sounds odd and<br />I know I drink too much coffee but this fills that acid tummy niche.
,,,,,Awesome Taste,"Tried this for the first time this week and it is now my favorite coffee --with a hint of flavor (coconut). Full bodied, and no after taste, Jamaica Me Crazy is just what I love for an afternoon pick-me up, or to wake up and have an immediate smile on my face. Seriously -- It's Awesome! Highly Recommended."
,,,,,Bland,"My husband likes strong coffee.  I like medium.  Neither one of us like this particular one.  There just isn't much flavor of any kind...coffee or caramel.  We like the vanilla one much better.  We'll drink this until it's gone...but it's the last flavor we choose, and it's lasting way too long!"
,,,,,Possible K-cup Problem,"The taste is fine, but the K-cup container has opened at the seal during the brewing process on more than one occasion, resulting in a mouthful of coffee grounds!  I have never had this happen with any other brand of K-cup before and hope it is not the norm for Wolfgang Puck."
,,,,,Just OK,"I prefer the ""extra bold"" coffees, so this one really lacking on the flavor.  It's fairly weak, at the smallest cup setting its drinkable, but I won't be buying it again.  I'd recommend the Timothy's World Coffee, Rainforest Decaf Espresso instead."
,,,,,K-Cup Fan,Wolfgang's Reserve Columbian Decaf is probably the best decaf we have had in a K-cup. Very good cup of coffee!
,,,,,Delicious....,This is a coffee that I look forward to drinking as soon as I wake up! Very nice......
,,,,,light vanilla flavor,"Light vanilla favor....not overpowering. Nice coffee, the first box that was purchased was too light on the vanilla flavor and aroma....surprisingly the 2nd box was much better.  One of my new favorites."
,,,,,Great coffee,"We love our Keurig coffeemaker and have tried many coffees.  Recently discovered Wolfgang Puck's new line of coffees and are pleased with all of his we have tried.  This one is smooth with a great flavor, no bite.  We would purchase this again."
,,,,,good coffee,"This is a mild but delicious coffe....some might say ""a dessert coffee"". I really liked it as a pleasant change from full bodied flavors."
,,,,,Perfect Espresso K-Cup,"Was looking for a strong K-Cup that could hold up for the perfect Espresso and for a great cup of coffee! Now receiving on auto ship, if you're looking for a great bold K-Cup, this is it."
,,,,,One of my favorites,"I read several great reviews on this coffee on another site and decided to give it a try. It's now one of my favorites and I will be ordering it again. The taste is great, sweet but bold enough that I can do a large size and it still have flavor."
,,,,,Excellent coffee,Great coffee.  Has a nice bold taste for a medium roast coffee. This is my new favorite. Give it a whirl.
,,,,,"smooth, mild flavor - not as strongly flavored as other brands","I bought a two pack at the Friday sale for $20.  Reasonable, but not an amazing deal.  I've been pleasantly surprised by the taste.  I do like the Van whatever flavor French Vanilla K-cups, and this contains significantly milder flavoring of a good tasting coffee.<br />I would and have served it to company and highly recommend serving with milk or cream.<br /><br />If you like flavored coffees, you'll most likely enjoy this one.  If you like it plain and black, you'll probably hate this."
,,,,,Medium Roast. Touch of Sweetness. Not Acidic.  Great with Milk.,"Nice medium coffee blend that has a hint of vanilla and a touch of sweetness.  If you like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HWI700"">Emeril's Vanilla Bean Bam!, Medium Roast Coffee for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHJ03I"">Gloria Jean's Coffees, Cappuccino for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>, you should like this blend.<br /><br />I drink this as an afternoon or dessert coffee with a splash of milk and a sugar packet.<br /><br />4 Stars because I would like just a touch more vanilla flavor.<br /><br />1/21/11: we ordered another box of this coffee and the vanilla flavor seemed to be a little stronger than our first box."
,,,,,Just Okay - Hidden Decaf.,Taste is okay.  Not blown away.  Hidden is the fact that this is truly a decaffeinated coffee.  Only place to find this out is on the bottom of the box.  Not what I want first thing in the morning.
,,,,,Flavored cofffee?,I am not a fan of flavored coffee and I thought I had read the description of this product very carefully but nowhere did I see any indication that it was a flavored coffee. I wish the descriptions of the coffees offered by Amazon were clearer so that there is no confustion as to what you are purchasing. Even the name of the product is a little deceptive since one might assume that it is Jamaican coffee.
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy Terrible,I use to purchase Jamaica beans locally and it was great. This Jamaica me crazy is nothing close to it. The odor is terrible and it tastes like the coffee is flat or stale. Other people in household tried it and couldn't get past the first cup. Pitched the remainder cups in the trash.
,,,,,Don't waste your money or your Keurig on this!,"This coffee tastes very flavorful and is not too strong, but I have to say it almost ruined my months' old Keurig Personal Brewer. The coffee is ground so finely that when the K-Cups are punctured by the needles (top and bottom), it gets packed into the needles and also sifts out through the holes made by the needles, going into the coffee cup creating a very nasty ""sludge"" in the bottom of each cup. I purchased a pack of 2 (48 K-Cups) and didn't even use one full pack. I do not recommend this brand or blend. It is a waste of money, which is something I couldn't really afford at this time. I sent a letter of complaint to the Wolfgang Puck company and, except for a ""cookie cutter"" letter acknowledging receipt of my comment, I have not received any further contact from them."
,,,,,What a waste of money!,"Unfortunately, I'm much too frugal to throw away something I've spent perfectly good money on, so I'm continuing to use these suckers until they're gone (hopefully in a few weeks). I thought I was buying a decent brand of coffee, given the Wolfgang Puck name, but alas, I was wrong. Using the middle cup size on my Keurig coffeemaker, these k-cups make a weak cup of coffee... more like brown water. No taste, no nothing. I switched to the smallest size cup and it's marginally better, but still barely drinkable. I wouldn't serve these to guests EVER. I can't wait to be done with these boxes of junk so I can order something with some taste. Please don't waste your money."
,,,,,bad tasting coffee,"this was terrible coffee Wolfgang Pucks Jamaicamecrazy, I received a partial refund but felt I should have gotten a full refund as I can't drink the coffee and had to throw it all away. Also had to pay shipping and should not of had to. I would like a response to this."
,,,,,A pleasing cup of coffee,"I found the taste and strength of this coffee just right for it to gain the honor of one of my ""go-to"" coffees for my Keurig.  Not too strong or bitter, I rather enjoy the flavor.  Sadly with the recent ""K-cup coup"" staged by Green Mountain Coffees, it looks like Amazon isn't carrying the Wolfgang Puck coffees any longer and my Subscribe and Save (and my business) will need to go elsewhere.  Definitely give this coffee a shot if you can."
,,,,,"Nice flavor, but very weak","The aroma is pleasant, and flavor is nice and smooth, but it is very, very weak.  I really wanted to like this one as there are very few available on subscribe and save, but I just cannot recommend it.  Even making smaller cups it is very weak.  I'm going to stick to Newman's Own Organics Extra Bold as my go to k-cup for now."
,,,,,weak,"I had tried Green Mountain Sumatra Reserve and found it delicious and strong. It's not available on ""subscribe and save"" so I read the reviews and opted for Wolfgang Puck. My husband likes it and I like the flavour but it's very weak in comparison to the Green Mountain. I have to order something else for me."
,,,,,"Meh...Okay, Not Great","We love Hazelnut coffee, but this just didn't have enough coffee flavor in it for me. Kind of on the weak side in my opinion. I'll keep looking."
,,,,,Great find!,"Love this coffee! The aroma is as delicious as the flavor. My husband would typically have a cup of coffee once or twice a month, now he's having a cup several times a week."
,,,,,crazy flavor combination.,"I admit, I am not terribly fond of flavored coffees. But, this one is not for us. We both love the Rodeo Drive. I have a good freind that loves this coffee. I sent her ours."
,,,,,Overpowering flavor and watery- Coffee lovers beware,"I found this coffee to be great at first, but as I started having it more and more I came to detest it. On the large setting the coffee is WAY too watery. Also, the flavor is very, very overpowering and kind of tastes like bananas.<br /><br />It is a pretty good mid-afternoon or evening desert coffee, but other than that it is kinda gross."
,,,,,What a disappointment,"I am definitely not a coffee connoisseur, but this stuff is bad.  It is a disappointment because I expected a Wolfgang Puck product to have more ""class.""  This tastes artificial and it can't stand alone without tons of cream and sweetener.  Will not buy again!"
,,,,,Ewwwww!!!!,"Really?  Who blends this stuff and decides that it is good?  Ugh.  I can sum this nastyness up in one quick phrase.  Stale airline coffee!  If you like that flavor, then you will love this one, if you don't like thin cardboard soaked, never washed the pot out, and the water came from a tin canteen, flavored coffee, then you won't like this one either!  I would give this zero stars if I could.  WOW, likely the worst cup of coffee that I have ever had.  I hope Wolfy reads this as his name is on the package and I expected more, now I know not to buy any of his signature products, awesome, thanks for saving me $$ next time!  The package says Extra Bold, but it doesn't taste extra bold.  It's almost like they put some ground instant powder in the mix to make it stronger."
,,,,,not good,The coffee tasted bitter and like it was burnt.  I cleaned the machine and it still tasted bitter and burnt.  Will not order this again.
,,,,,Really???,"I'm amazed that people are happy with this product.  I'm not a drinker of the dark brews, French roast or anything, but even for a drinker of a milder cup of coffee, this is completely tasteless.  The initial scent is delicious, too bad none of it shows up in the actual coffee."
,,,,,No flavor - very weak,I got this through a Decaf Keurig assortment pack (also from amazon) and while I have enjoyed all of the flavors - thisone was so weak - I had to post a review.
,,,,,bitter,"To me this coffee was extremely bitter.  I dumped it out and made a different cup.  It made me afraid to try other WP coffees but I did like the WP Sumatra Kopi Raya.<br /><br />For reference purposes my in store drink is a Starbucks Americano.<br /><br />My favorite k-cups are:<br />Starbucks French Roast<br />Starbucks Caffe Verona<br />Starbucks Pike Place Roast<br />Green Mountain Xtra Bold Sumatran Reserve<br />Green Mountain Double Black Diamond<br />Green Mountain Revv<br />Green Mountain Dark Magic<br /><br />Other k-cups I've tried:  Coffee People Jet Fuel ,Green Mountain Dark Magic Decaf, Emeril Jazzed up Decaf, Starbucks Caffe Verona, Coffee People Black Tiger,  Starbucks House Blend, Starbucks Breakfast Blend, Starbucks Sumatra, Wolfgang Puck French Roast, Green Mountain Lake and Lodge, Green Mountain French Roast, Caribou Mahogony, Wolfgang Puck Sumatra Kopi Raya, Emeril Big Easy Bold"
,,,,,Not a fan of this blend,"Coffee is a very subjective thing.  Some people like coffee that borders on tea, others like the stuff that a certain national chain named after a famous Battlestar Galactica pilot serves.  For the record, I love the slightly-sour taste of Dunkin Donuts coffee and I find the stuff made by ""that other chain"" to be akin to re-hydrated cigarette ash.  For many years, we still percolated coffee...with most big-name brands of pre-ground coffee, you needed a percolator to bring out the flavor in it, but again, your tastes may vary.<br /><br />With my Keurig, my favorite coffee was Paul Neumans Extra Bold....because it didn't seem Extra Bold.  Until you buy 80 of them and get tired of the flavor.  Then, my favorites were the Caribu's....but something happened to that brand (see reviews) and I agree, they did something...either they don't put as much in the cups or they changed the blend, the sourcing of the beans, etc......wasted money on Caribu and wont go back to the brand.<br /><br />So Wolfgang Puck got the nod, tried 4 different flavors.  This one, Sorrento, is not my favorite of the bunch (currently Colombian Chef's Reserve).  It has a bolder strength (which I believe hard core coffee drinkers would consider Medium), but to me it has a simple burnt flavor to it.  Cream and Sweetener don't correct for this, and thus I'm a bit disappointed....but again it was a stab in the dark.<br /><br />I think if you prefer a slightly bolder, slightly more burnt flavor in your coffee...this may be for you.  I like the character of the Colombian Chef's Reserve, but it is not as strong, and perhaps that is just what my taste is slanted towards.  I don't believe you can get a bad cup of coffee in the Wolfgang Puck line however.  Can't say the same for some other K-cup brands."
,,,,,WORST COFFEE I'VE EVER HAD!,This Wolfgang Puck Coffee Jamaica Me Crazy is the worst coffee I've ever had!<br />I threw it out right away after one sip! It taste like all coconut flavoring.<br />Hard to believe someone thought this taste good and was marketable. They should be fired!
,,,,,Hazelnut?!?,Ugh... no where on the Amazon page for this item did it state that it was Hazelnut flavored.  I have been choking this down for a month just trying to get through it.  Thought it was going to be a Blue Mountain-like Jamaican coffee...
,,,,,Mediocre,This coffee is only mediocre in quality. I do not like a highly acidic coffee nor do I like it when the coffee outdates within 6 weeks of the order date. The only reason I am not more dissatified with this lousy coffee is that I paid very little for it by using a credit I had at amazon payments. I do not recommend this coffee.
,,,,,"good coffee, good deal","It is a medium roast pleasant coffee, comparable to green mountain's breakfast blend. I bought it with a very good deal though."
,,,,,Simply - It's terrible,"If Keurig brewers were evaluated by this particular K-Cup, Keurig would be out of business. Wolfgang Puck - French Roast Melange Francais is inexcusably terrible coffee. Aroma hints of singed oak leave and the top note is simply bitter.  Mid taste is like the bottom ounces of a days old Kwiki-Mart carafe.  Mouth feel is harsh and leaves an appalling coating. The after taste leads one to immediately brush ones teeth.  I simply couldn't believe my Keurig was capable of making such a bad cup of coffee, so I tried again a week later with same results. I use average-to-good filtered water and have no problems with other brands like Green Mountain, Tulleys, nor Emeril's. Everyone I know that has a Keurig learned of it via word of mouth or a shared cup. Usually the results are stunning, and the Keurig invasion lives on.  When I share I'll stick with offering The Coffee Peoples' Black Tiger or Jet Fuel. Now I have 22 more WP/FR K-cups sitting in the bottom draw of my china cabinet to get rid of. Let me know if you want them, as I'd be embarrassed to even give them away.  Sorry Wolfgang, but what the Puck - your French Roast is unpardonably horrible, and at K-cup prices I'll not be duped again. I'll stay away from any of the other WP offerings."
,,,,,Horrible,This stuff tasted like pipe tobacco smells. My Son didn't like it either and I ended up throwing it out.
,,,,,Terrrrific!!,"Simply Awesome. I love bold coffee and love French Roast Brews. This is a truly wonderful FR blend. Dittos for Deidrich FR, both are awesome.<br /><br />I also tend to like the BOLD COFFEE PEOPLE KCUPS...Most all I've tried have been bold and flavorful, each with it's own distinct flavor."
,,,,,Just got the coffee... LOVE IT!!!,"I got the coffee for 12.50 per box.  Ordered 4 boxes!!  Such a great deal, as the coffee is a great blend.<br /><br />If anyone is upset because of the website having issues when they were trying to buy it, they shouldn't review the product poorly, as it is not the product that is the problem.<br /><br />The problem is that you're jealous you didn't get such a great deal on the coffee.  Grow up kids, this coffee is great!!!  Will buy from Amazon.com, LLC again for more K-Cups for my Keurig.<br /><br />ALL OF MY COFFEE ARRIVED PACKAGED WELL AND IN NEW CONDITION, NOTHING WRONG WITH IT!!"
,,,,,Satisfying!,"Highly recommended for those who appreciate a good dark roast coffee, Wolfgang's Sumatra Kopi Raya excites the flavor buds and ignites one's morning... always a good start to any day."
,,,,,Never got a chance...and still climbing,Ok...TODAY 4/15 this company decided to put them up for sale at 12.50 per 24pk...  This advertisement was on SLICKDEALS.NET<br /><br />Well... Went to order and refreshed the page and in my cart was now 1 at 36 dollars???? so they sold one out of my cart.<br />Next.... I waited 20 mins to see if it was a fluke and SD.NET started claiming dead link.<br /><br />Well upon refreshing again... they were now 44.95 for one 24 pack...<br /><br />Hey RIDICULOUS SELLER..... GET WITH THE PROGRAM ...IF THIS IS YOUR WAY OF RECOVERING QUICK MONEY...I THINK PEOPLE ARE MUCH SMARTER THEN THAT UPON PRESSING CONFIRM MY ORDER>..... ROUND OF APPLAUSE TO YOU FOR BEING SO UN-TECH-SAVY
,,,,,Bitter w/ overtones of cardboard,No thanks.  Kind of bitter and has slight overtone of cardboard.  Organic Bold and Donut Shop are still our faves.
,,,,,The WORST coffee !,The worst!!! it is just plan awful bitter and strong and you cannot taste the Hazel Nut flavor at all!!!!!  Do not buy this product save your money!!!!!
,,,,,Wolfgang K-cup,"K-cups are marginally better than good coffee that I can buy at the store for 1/2 the price or less. This product was offered at $19.95 and I was willing to purchase it but it immediately went up to $26.95. It is not really worth $19.95 and is certainly not worth any increase. Additionally, what's the deal on offering INSTANT COFFEE in K-cups for $15.99 leaving us to think it's a good deal on REAL coffee. Do you want to lose our trust (business)???? That's a good way to do it!!!!!!!!!!<br />jb"
,,,,,Taste like old socks,I thought this coffee was really horrible. Had one cup and will throw the rest away because it can't be returned.
,,,,,Can't offer much guidance,"I ordered the vanilla coffee for my college age children.  Unfortunately, there were shipping delays and it did not arrive until the kids had returned to college for the Fall semester.  Update to come when they finally come home for a break -- it may be a while.  The other coffees I have ordered have all been tasty and a very good value, I have no reason to believe this will be any different. I can say that the k cups and the Keurig have been delightful.  I enjoy having a freshly brewed cup every time and like that I save a bunch of money by brewing at home into a travel mug rather than stopping to drop $2.00 for a cup on the way to work.  Saves all those styrofoam cups too!"
,,,,,Yuk!  Twangy aftertaste and weak coffee make this one to avoid.,"I bought both the Creme Caramel and this Hazelnut kcup and I couldn't tell them apart even if my life depended on it... The flavor is pretty weak and the coffee itself is too and unlike the Caramel one, this one has a nasty bitter aftertaste like the flavor is artificial.  Yeah, I know it's artificial but I hate that it actually tastes like a chemical!  Yuk...<br /><br />This is one of those coffees you can serve to company who doesn't know good coffee or people you don't want to have come to your house any more as one cup of this and they won't be your friends after it!  It really is quite bad."
,,,,,Not Extra Bold,Definitely not extra bold...medium roast at best.  Not particularly memorable...doesn't have a good coffee aroma...but it's pretty decent tasting.  At this point I'm not sure if I would reorder.
,,,,,horrible coffee,this coffee has a very funny taste to it not good you would think wolfgang it would be good dont buy this coffee this is a review of 6 people there are 6 people in my shop we all hate it not good
,,,,,Great balance,"I'm not a coffee snob. If I was, I doubt I'd own a Keurig. I just want a decent tasting cup of coffee with little cleanup.<br /><br />I've tried many of the flavored coffees, but they're too gimmicky for me. Starbucks brand tastes burnt to me, even their blonde roast -- in stores I mean, I have not tried the Starbucks brand kcups.<br /><br />I like this breakfast blend because it's not too dark, not too light. It tastes like what no-frills coffee should taste like. I order the biggest size to get the best value.<br /><br />Update: I just tried to create a review for the ""Jamaica Me Crazy"" coconut flavor, which I thought was terrible. (And I *love* coconut.) I should specify that the original review was for ""Breakfast in Bed."""
,,,,,"Disappointed, this is not BOLD coffee","I was so excited to try a new BOLD coffee.....needless to say, I am disappointed. I would rate this coffee as a MEDIUM. If it would have been listed as a MEDIUM, I would have given it a higher rating because this is truly a MEDIUM strength coffee in taste and flavor. I will still drink it from time to time- flavor is smooth, not bitter. Overall, I wish that I would have ordered some more Jet Fuel or Black Tiger."
,,,,,"Good stuff, but overpriced","I do like this coffee, but even with Subscribe and Save, Amazon's price is higher than K-cups at Bed Bath & Beyond.  Convenience is one thing, but since there are BB&Bs all around me, it's pretty easy to pick up my coffee there and save a few bucks.  I wish Amazon would price their coffees more competitively - I'd buy here exclusively if they did.  But this is good, medium roast coffee.  Not quite as strong as I'd like, but a little stronger than the Breakfast in Bed version.  I may need to try Sorrento and see if it's a little bolder."
,,,,,Average offering from Wolfgang Puck,"So here is another example of a 48-pack of k-cups I bought ""untested"".  I figured, well, I really enjoy Sumatra's bold, smooth and rich with a bit of bitterness flaver, so why not?  Wolfgang puck has a few restaurants, so maybe he knows coffee.<br /><br />So, this is utterly average in all departments.  It's not very bold or rich, although I can say it does have the bitterness, which is a bit unbalanced as it lacks the richness.  Purchased only because it appeared on the Subscribe & Save at a great price per k-cup.  That makes two WP's that have been run of the mill at best [Sumatra & French roast].  Next time I'll be more discerning."
,,,,,Average quality French roast,"I really like to mix things up with k-cups and rarely buy 50-ct boxes of a single flavor.  Exception to the rule would be for dark, bold coffees such as French roasts, which I really enjoy.  So when Wolfgang Puck's French roast turned up on Amazon's deal of the week, even though I have never tried before, now I have 48 units.<br /><br />It's fairly non-descript for a French roast.  Decent aroma, but taste is muted compared to, for example, a Diedrich French roast.  I don't hate or even dislike it, it's 'okay', and for the price I paid, is acceptable without complaint.  It may make an acceptable guest coffee for those wanting something a little bolder without being over the top rich.<br /><br />I'd call it mildly bold, average, and I won't be going out of my way to keep it on hand."
,,,,,Great mild cup of coffee,"My favorite K-Cup so far. Absolutely NO aftertaste, which in my book is a huge plus. It's not acidic, not bitter, just a great MILD cup of coffee, which is exactly what it purports to be! I wish other people would read the description before they give a bad review based on their own stupidity. Don't buy a MEDIUM roast coffee and complain because it's not bold! Also, as a general rule the ones with ""Breakfast"" in the name are milder. I don't care for bold, dark roast, slap you awake coffee so I wouldn't buy a bold coffee and then complain that it was bold."
,,,,,Well-rounded but weak,"I've read so many reviews on the many brands and varieties of K-cups... coffee preferences are so subjective.  I did like the flavor of this coffee -- bold but not bitter.  As to ""strength"" I wish that there was more coffee in each K-cup... I am accustomed to Starbuck's strength, and I have to set my Keurig to medium-cup size to get the strength I need.  This is not as cost-effective as -- say Jet Fuel (but I found Jet Fuel too bitter.)<br />If Wolfgang Puck would add more coffee to its K-cups, this would be a perfect coffee for me."
,,,,,nothing special,"Wolfgang Puck's ""Breakfast in Bed"" is a much more flavorful and robust medium roast than this one."
,,,,,Best Iced K-Cup I've Had!,"This coffee has a very tropical taste to it, so it's perfect for iced coffee on a hot day.  The flavor is not bad when heated, but it just seems a little odd.<br /><br />You don't usually think of tropical beverages being hot."
,,,,,"Pleasant, smooth and flavorful cup of coffee","We have been enjoying our order of W.Puck Sumatra Kopi Raya dark roast coffee K-cups for the last week.  We find the delicious flavor very satisfying...not so strong to be bitter, and not so weak as to taste like colored water.  The coffee is perfect. There is just the right amount of heartiness to make it an enjoyable coffee experience, and it carries a nice lingering pleasant flavor and aroma.  It is not as strong as an espresso, but maybe one step below.  Like we said, ""pleasant, smooth, and flavorful!"""
,,,,,pretty good for decaf,I am not a fan of any of the decaf k cups I have tried but this one is probably the best.I like strong coffee and his comes pretty close to what I would expect although it says medium roast.
,,,,,Wonderfully yummy,"I was intrigued how this particular blend got such an exotic name, and I wasn't disappointed.  There is an ever so slight coconut aftertaste that makes this so delicious,  I don't like strong coffee, and this is perfect for my husband and I.  I get it send regularly now and it's one of our favorites!  Second only to Jamaica Me Crazy by Wolfgang Puck.  Wolfgang is much tastier than the other brands."
,,,,,Exquisitely Flavored Medium Coffee,"I tried this coffee on a half dozen quests this weekend and they all loved it.  For those that like their coffee mild, I brewed 7 oz cups.  For those of us that like it bold, I brewed 5 oz cups.<br /><br />As an earlier posted noted, it does have a slightly flavored quality to the taste that makes it stand out from other coffees.  The taste isn't obvious enough to turn off drinkers who want their coffee ""regular and black"" but strong enough to note for those of us that pay attention.<br /><br />I plan on trying all of Wolfgang's line.  Wish he'd offer a variety pack."
,,,,,WARNING... this is a strongly FLAVORED coffee,"This is not regular coffee as the description would lead you to believe... it's artificially flavored, and it appears from the other ratings that you either love the flavor or hate it. My household hated it. Of course, that would be my problem if the description was accurate, but it's not. Amazon refunded my money and said someone would check the information on the product page."
,,,,,Dee-lish,"I just got my box today and brewed a cup after work. It's one of my favorite k-cups yet!! I recommend it. Smooth, doesn't taste watered down, and no bitter aftertaste. The cups also look pretty in my k-cup rack :-)"
,,,,,The Best Hazelnut K-Cup!,"Wolfgang Puck's Hawaiian Hazelnut is the best K-Cup Hazelnut and I have tried them all. We ordered this large pack, because we sadly found out that Wolfgang Puck is discontinuing many (not all) of their K-Cups, including this flavor. Buy this while you can!"
,,,,,great coffee,"So far, of all the decaf Kcups we have tried, this is our favorite.  Wish it were on the automatic ordering system.  Coffee is such an individual like or dislike but when we use it with an 8oz cup of water it is great."
,,,,,Best K-cup Coffee!,I bought the Kuerig because I love the Dunkin Original and Green Mountain Nantucket Blend.  Rodeo Drive has now become my favorite.  It is very delicious and smooth.
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Decaf can't miss!,"When I feel that I do not need more caffine, I have found that the Wolfgang Puck Decaf is a great substitute.  I really can't tell the difference, taste wise.  I had been having trouble finding a good decaf.  I think this one is it."
,,,,,What a great cup of coffee,"Sometimes I feel when I reach for a decaffeinated K-cup that I'm going to settle for less flavor. However, I'm completely happy with this product. I don't feel I'm missing anything. Everyday I treat myself to a relaxing cup of coffee after work before starting dinner. This product just fits  what I'm looking for."
,,,,,Enjoyable flavor!,"I got a 5 k-cup sample box of this coffee from Keureg, and I find that it is my favorite decaf coffee. It brews a smooth tasting cup of coffee every time. I add some 1/2 & 1/2 and a bit of Equal, and it is a treat any time.<br />Glad to have found this coffee."
,,,,,great decaf coffee!,"Wolfgang Puck coffees are very good. This particular flavor of decaf is delicious - doesn't taste like decaf at all, very rich & flavorful. Also, this was a very good value for the price. I've recommended this product to several friends."
,,,,,My Favorite K-Cup,"My wife and I have decided hands down, this is our favorite K-cup. We've tried a lot of others, and Donut Shop and Caribu Daybreak are certainly still up there. However, this has a very solid body flavor with a medium roast. Almost a bold flavor with a smooth finish. Excellent flavor versus strength. Really nice to get up on a lazy Sunday morning and have a nice cup of Breakfast in Bed!<br /><br />Also, I see another reviewer had problems with messy K-cups. I can say after about 6 boxes of theses, I haven't had any issues. Very unfortunate for the other reviewer, but looks like it was rather isolated.<br /><br />Give it a try, you'll certainly enjoy it, the wife and I sure do!"
,,,,,Unremarkable,"First, let me say that I prefer extra-bold K-Cup coffees and only occasionally drink a medium blend, and never decaf. I bought three Wolfgang Puck coffees several months ago: Rodeo Drive Blend; French Roast; and Sumatra Kopi Raya. All three are quite drinkable, though they do not measure up to a few of the extra-bold blends from Coffee People: Kona Blend; Organic Blend; Jet Fuel; and Black Tiger. Even better than these, though, is my new favorite, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003M7TTYG"">Green Mountain's Revv</a>. Those who prefer a strong, dark cup of coffee (even at the larger mug setting) should try that brand.<br /><br />Previously, I had found the dark-roast Green Mountain coffees rather boring, but Revv lives up to the hype, both in strength and flavor. Another great Green Mountain coffee is their Espresso Blend (though Amazon doesn't stock it, so the prices tend to be higher here than in brick-and-mortar stores such as Bed Bath and Beyond). Finally, a favorite regular over the years has been <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004M5W7YQ"">Emeril's Big Easy Bold</a>. It's a very nice coffee, though don't expect the New Orleans experience of chicory flavor.<br /><br />Bottom line: You won't go wrong with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but for my taste they do not stand out among the available bold coffees."
,,,,,Light Coconut Flavored Coffee.,"I am usually a non flavored coffee drinker, but I do like to mix things up every now and again. This is a lightly coconut flavored coffee. The coffee itself is a medium brew and it goes well with the tropical undertones of the coconut. It is a nice summer drink."
,,,,,Rodeo Drive - delicious coffee,I love quite a few coffees but this one is grabbing my whole households attention. It's not bitter but it's not light either. It's perfect. I love it.
,,,,,Pretty Good Decaf,"I switched to Decaf and was looking for a decent cup on the Keurig machine.  I was only interested in Subscribe and Save options.<br /><br />This is a fairly light roast, which I like.  I brew on the middle setting and I think if it was brewed any larger I would think it was too light."
,,,,,Not my favorite,"Of all the K-Cup flavors that are out there, and there are many very good ones, this is one of my least favorites, and I have tried almost all of them.  Not much flavor to this one, even if you add various types of creamers.  Of course, it is all a matter of taste, but this one doesn't taste all that good.  It is not bad - it is just kind of there - like a generic coffee.  Try something else instead."
,,,,,K cup Coffee,Absolutely love Wolfgang Puck Rodeo Drive K Cups.  It is the best.  Nice rich flavor but not too strong.  Best one yet!
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck coffee rodeo drive blend medium roast K-cup for keurig,I have purchase this coffee several times my husband said it has a great taste and it is a good cup of coffee
,,,,,Jamaica Me Happy!,"I am a huge fan of Jamaica Me Crazy coffee.  There was a time in my life when I was totally caffeine free and off the dark stuff, but a customer in the bank I worked at brought in a pound of this coffee as a gift to the tellers.  Every time someone walked by my desk with a cup of this freshly made joe, the smell would really tempt me to go back to consuming coffee again.  Eventually it broke me down, and I am back to being a full time coffee drinker, and proud of it! Imagine how happy I was to find my favorite brew in a K-cup!  The only thing better than a cup of Jamica Me Crazy is a cup sweetened with the new Almond Joy flavor International Creamer in it to highlight the sweet coconut.  Unfortunately, we only have a Keurig at our office (I'm in Real Estate now), so I have to go to work to enjoy a cup.  I'm thinking I have a brilliant boss who knows how to get people to willingly show up to work! Now if I can just figure a way to use it to temp more buyers into our office - I'd have it made ;0)"
,,,,,Nice mellow cup of coffee!,"I bought this grudgingly because my favorite Timothy's Italian Blend was out of stock...... and I was very happily surprised! It's not as ""big""  and winey a brew as my favorite, but was flavorful, had a delicious aroma and was smooth. I tend to like rather potent coffee but I have clients who prefer a little lighter cup..... this will be perfect! I will happily keep buying this coffee. Thanks Wolfgang!"
,,,,,So good!,"I think this is a love it or hate it kind of coffee.  I love it.  The flavor starts out similar to butter toffee, but then sort of morphs into coconut, pineapple, and rum.  I think it's delicious and unique, and I don't ever want to be without some in my cupboard."
,,,,,New favorite!,"This one will not disappoint!  I got this yesterday and my husband and I tried it this morning with breakfast and we both loved it.  I have gotten many different kinds of the k-cups to try but after trying this one, I think I could be happy with just this one and black tiger for those mornings when I want a really strong cup of coffee.  The rodeo drive blend is delicious with a nice round feel on the palate and an interesting flavor on the finish with just a hint of smokiness.  Perfectly balanced and absolutely wonderful!  Plus, I have to admit...I love the label. The different color looks very appealing on my carousel with the other k-cups."
,,,,,One of the best K-cups,"We've tried many of the K-cups that are available, and this is in our top 3. We prefer a darker, bolder flavor, and this one hits the mark. At the same time it's quite smooth."
,,,,,Mild and Flavorful,My husband I both like a mild tasting coffee.  We thought we would give Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed a try.  We were pleasantly surprised by the full bodied taste but without the bitterness of some of the stronger tasting coffee's.  We are very satisfied and will be drinking this for a long time!  Now if I can only get my husband to take the name literally!
,,,,,Rich Tasting Coffee,"This k-cup is one of my favorites along with Coffee People's Jet Fuel and Black Tiger.  If you like a strong, rich coffee, this will fit the bill."
,,,,,A Winner cup of coffee!,"Not too strong, not too weak...smooth without the bitterness.  Great anytime for those not into the strong ""grow hair on your chest"" types.  We will continue to purchase this as a part of our favorite brands."
,,,,,K-Cup Fan,Wolfgang's Rodeo Drive does make a good ole cup of coffee. It is on the same line as Donut Shop. Very good morning coffee to wake up with.
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck coffee for Keurig maker,The coffee was more on the light side rather than medium roast.  I don't think I would purchase it again even though it was a good value purchase.
,,,,,Colombian decaf,I have tried several decaf K-cubs and have found this to be the best. My husband does not like decaf but has finally found this one he will drink because it has a little bolder taste.I find it a good coffee to have in the house for company because everyone seems to like it. I will be ordering it again and again!
,,,,,Good Stuff,This coffee is for those who like a strong robust flavor. Nothing wimpy about it. I like just enough cocoa mix and creamer to take off the edge. My husband goes for the gusto. Great wake-me-up-in-the-morning brew. Love it!
,,,,,Great Coffee,"This is an excellent blend perfect for any time. Was really surprised by the quality, flavor and finish."
,,,,,barely any vanilla aroma or flavor,"As coffee, these kcups are just ok.  As ""flavored"" coffee these are disappointing.  I found the vanilla to be barely detectable."
,,,,,OK coffee but not the best by far,"After receiving this coffee I made a few cups.  It was fairly smooth, not too overpowering, and had a slight mocha aroma.  It's OK coffee.  I likely will not purchase this one again because there are so many better ones.  To gauge my review for others, my favorites are Coffee People Donut Shop, Green Mountain Dark Magic, Coffee People Organic Bold, Emeril's Big Easy Bold, and Tully's Kona Blend."
,,,,,Good stuff!,"Nice, smooth cup of Joe. High recommend. Not sure why there is not more reviews?!?!"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Coffee - Sumatra Kopi Raya for Keurig,"This coffee was in a ""sample"" selection when we ordered our Keurig Brewer.  It was by far our favorite!  I have ordered this coffee several times from Amazon.  It is a dark roast, but not too strong."
,,,,,Tastes great,You get a consistent cup of coffee with a hint of hazelnut. A cup of hot coffee in about 20 seconds that tastes great... what's not to like about that?! :)
,,,,,Best caramel K-cup!,These have a stronger caramel flavor although still a medium strength coffee.  The best caramel flavored K-cup I've tried!  I will reorder them.
,,,,,Love Love Love This Coffee!!!,I want to try other types of coffee but I am so stuck on this one that it's hard to try anything else!  This is a mild roast.  Medium or dark roast is too strong for me these days.  The hazelnut flavor it very nice and every cup brewed is superb.  I have been drinking this Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut for at least 6 months and it never fails to please.  Give it a try :)
,,,,,one of the better K cups I've tried,love this Rodeo Drive it has a very drinkable taste is also good and it is smooth! I recomend that you try this one.
,,,,,Delicious,This is the most delicious coffee ever It does not mess up your stomach it's amazing and tastes wonderful and everyone at work loves it too
,,,,,Favorite!!!,"For years, I've been completely devoted to Dunkin Donuts brewed at the store and at home.  I tried brewing DD in my K cup and I also bought the Eco Brew and the actual DD k cups.  Awful!  So I was searching high and low for a new coffee.  After trying all the decaf k cups on the market, I finally found and loved Wolfgang Puck decaf coffee k cups.  This is the only place I can find them so I hope Amazon never stops selling them here.  They are mellow, medium roast and I enjoy them every day.  Any other brand is just a back up.  Try them.  I have never had any trouble with any of the cups and I'm on my third order now of 48 cups.  If they had a problem, they've fixed it.<br /><br />This is an update being done on July 7, 2012.  I continue to drink at least two cups of this coffee EVERY day.  It has ruined me for other coffees as I measure every other cup against this incredible Wolfgang Puck Decaf k cup.  Please, please, PLEASE Amazon, make this part of your subscription service.  My head hurts trying to make sure that I always remember to order so as not to ever be out of this wonderful coffee."
,,,,,Almost Bitter,I really like medium strength coffee but this is a little too bold to be considered medium. It is almost bitter when compared to other medium coffees.
,,,,,Breakfast Delight,Great product to start your AM with as its not too strong but just the right tast for your morning wake us up.
,,,,,Successful experiment!,"Our Keurig coffee maker was a great Christmas gift last year. One of the pleasures of this device is the experimentation with various coffee blends. Some have worked well; others have not. Some are too mild; some are a bit ""off"" on taste.<br /><br />This Wolfgang Puck product is one of the more successful experiments with the Keurig machine. It has a rich taste and still remains smooth. Not too strong a flavor, but it does have flavor.<br /><br />So, the two coffee drinkers in my household are quite pleased to drink this brew."
,,,,,Okay but not great,This coffee is okay but certainly not as good as Green Mountain's Breakfast Blend. It just doesn't taste as good.
,,,,,Tasty but Expensive,"This is a great flavored coffee nevertheless, K-cups are getting too expensive for everyday home use.  I am now using the filler and using my own ground coffee much of the time. It's also helpful to look for other price alternatives."
,,,,,"Great, but not perfect","I roast my own Colombian beans at home so I have a perfect ""10"" for reference. Right off the bat let me say that just like their Sumatran reserve, this k-cup is not bitter, but smooth. The aftertaste is also smooth. My chief complaint is it does not taste like a Colombian bean. It really is missing the deep flavor of a columbian coffee, while the Sumatran Puck K-cup definitely has a Sumatran taste. The ""8 oclock"" brand you see in many grocery stores has a more distinct flavor than this k-cup. That being said, my final recommendation is that I would recoommend the Puck Sumatran over this if you like a distinct coffee flavor. However, if you are looking for a not-too-stong-but-not-bitter coffee, this Colombian is a great choice. I would buy this again just because of the smooth taste."
,,,,,Spicy sweetness!,"I've always been drawn to K-Cup varieties with out there names (Jet Fuel, Black Tiger) and distinctive flavors (Golden French Toast, Spicy Mayan Chocolate). This offering melds those two features into something I'm happy to wake up to!<br /><br />To me, Jamaica Me Crazy's definitely got a pervasive coconut taste fairly similar to Dunkin' Donuts coconut flavored coffee, but it's also got a lot of the flavor characteristics I've come to expect from K-Cup chocolate brews. Barely any of that acidic aftertaste that's almost inevitable with artificial flavors, and definitely not as watery as many other K-cup varieties. Sure, the name's pretty corny and the taste is hardly subtle or sophisticated, but that's what makes this cup of joe so fun!"
,,,,,"Great shelf life, very good for general use","I use this product frequently.  Like most tofu, you need to press it (between paper towels with a heavy skillet on top works fine) to get the excess water out.  The more water you can remove, the less you'll have to deal with sloppiness when cooking, something the previous reviewer did not like.<br /><br />As for a blank slate on taste, that's exactly what makes tofu great.  It will take on any flavor you want to impart.  Our most common marinade is placing the pressed, cubed tofu in a Ziploc with a mix of soy, honey, and lemon or lime juice.  A quick search online for a marinade will give you ideas (many also include minced garlic, ginger, etc).  You can also purchase a premade marinade, like a teriyaki sauce.  The more liquid the marinade (and the more water removed from pressing), the better it will penetrate the tofu.  Even a half hour in the bag works fine.<br /><br />We saute it right in the pan with the stir fry veggies (add tofu last--it just needs to get warm; or, for a firmer style, you can bake or ""brown"" it separately first) and pour in the remaining marinade as the final sauce (you can thicken with cornstarch if desired).  Handle the tofu cubes gently as they are not firm like most meats, but broken up pieces taste just fine too.<br /><br />Marinated tofu cubes also do well on kebabs with veggies on the grill.<br /><br />Plain tofu ""creams"" well and is often good in a dish that requires thickness.  We've made chocolate mousse with it as well as scrambling it like eggs.<br /><br />We have great success breading pressed cubes of this tofu just like you would the chicken in a General Tso recipe.  General Tso's Tofu is AWESOME.  The flavor comes from the sauce so you don't need to marinate first.<br /><br />Some people also freeze tofu--generally remove from packaging and press first--to give it a firmer consistency.<br /><br />Tofu is all about how you prepare it.  Most people will NOT like it plain, so don't expect to just dig a fork into it.<br /><br />This particluar product is great because of its all-purpose nature (firm is definitely better than soft for saute, etc) and its shelf life.  I would have given it five stars but the must-be-refrigerated versions packaged in fluid do seem to be firmer.  They don't last as long in the house, though, so this is a perfect choice to keep in the pantry (usually dated a few to several months out)."
,,,,,Greatest stuff on the planet,"This is the greatest stuff on the planet. First off, I think it's the best silken tofu there is--firm silken will do all of your silken needs, basically. I use it to make mousses for desserts in my food processor. For instance, add some melted chocolate chips, some corn starch, add to a graham cracker crust: you've got a pie. Or I will add some peanut butter, cocoa powder and maple syrup to make a mousse. I also like to just add strawberries and bananas and maple syrup for a ""yogurt."" I use it to make ""sour cream"" and onion dips for vegetables. I also like it to make ""sour cream"" for Mexican food and potatoes--my omni boyfriend can't even tell the difference. Also good to make mayonnaise for potato salad. I recommend a food processor or blender to really get the smooth, creamy texture. This tofu is the best stuff on the planet. I order the 12 pack of it, because I got through 4 or more a week. Also, I like to get the organic, because soybeans are typically highly sprayed crops. It's worth the few extra bucks. I love this stuff--behind my almond milk, this is my most vital ingredient."
,,,,,Awesome tofu @ a great price!,"My wife and I decided that we wanted to begin having miso soup for dinner on a more regular basis, so purchased this tofu as an essential ingredient for my miso soup recipe. I was totally impressed with the individual packaging of the tofu (and the fact that it doesn't need to be refrigerated), the taste and texture, and the overall product quality. Needless to say, I am reordering and will continue to do so. I want to say that my picky kids also love this tofu as well -- for kids that seem to only want mac & cheese, they are gorging themselves on (much healthier) miso soup now. This makes me happy. By the way, I also highly recommend the Roland White Miso Paste (incredible flavor and great quality) and the Ajinomoto Hon Dashi Soup Stock which I both purchased from Amazon.  If interested, my Miso Soup recipe is as follows: 1 package of Morinu firm silken tofu (this stuff), 2 tsp Dashi soup stock, 3 TBS white miso paste, 4 cups of water and 2 chopped scallions -- we also reconstitute shitake mushrooms, add dried wakame seaweed (highly recommend either Eden or Emerald Cove from Amazon as well), add shaved daikon, etc. However, this recipe is awesome just as is... We live in Northern California with some of the best Japanese restaurants in the world, but this recipe blows away (or at least equals) what you can get from any restaurant. But I digress... I highly recommend this tofu!"
,,,,,very satisfied.,"I used to eat tofu almost every. And i havn't had those for a while.<br />So i was searching and i was actually surprised that amzon has tofu!<br />I was Half-curious and Half-pleased!So i bought it..and i don't regret it.<br />It's Organic, cheap and doesn't need to be refrigerated until opend.<br />I just like to eat these by it self or with udon soup.<br />I am going to buy this again. So good..: )"
,,,,,Awesome tofu,"Having recently turned Vegan, I had to buy my mandatory supply of tofu. This stuff is the bomb! I haven't done a lot of exotic things with it thus far, but I LOVE to use it as a salad dressing/potato topper. I crack open a brick, dump it into the blender, add a little vinegar, a little soy milk, onion power, dill weed, chives, tiny bit of celery seed & a generous dose of nutritional yeast. I blend all that up till it's smooth, and then store it in a GLAD container in the icebox. Stays fresh for about 4 days. I like to just dump this stuff all over my meal of baked potatoes & romaine lettuce.<br /><br />I can't wait to explore ALL the options with this stuff. Banana pudding may be next!"
,,,,,"Wonderful, easy to cook with.","I am fairly new to tofu but have already gone through 3 cases of this lovely tofu since the beginning of the year.<br />It's really great. Very mild flavour that is easily masked by what ever you cook it with.<br /><br />I make an awesome instant chocolate pudding with this stuff, a box of silken tofu, some dark cocoa powder, stevia and then a bit of milk to loosen it up. Whiz in a blender or food processor and it makes a super creamy, dreamy delight that I don't feel guilty about eating and leaves me more satisfied than your standard pudding. Chill it and it becomes a realllllllllllllly thick, luscious mousse. (making myself hungry)<br /><br />Anyhoo, I love that it's a shelf stable product that I can have on hand for impromptu meals.<br /><br />Sometimes I make burgers by mixing it with smoked paprika, garlic, onion, nutritional yeast, oatmeal, masa flour, bit of nice oil until a thick consistency and fry up and they're just fantastic.<br /><br />I think this is one of those foods that's so versatile and easy to play with and gives you a nice bit of protein to your diet."
,,,,,Convenient,"Following a plant based diet, I use tofu almost daily.  It is expensive to purchase at a store and takes up valuable real estate in my fridge.  These packages sit perfectly on a shelf.  They are a little smaller than standard refrigerated tofu (12 oz vs 16 oz).  They are also silk tofu so they don't hold  their shape as well, which is good for certain things like fried rice or chocolate mousse.  Not great if you are making tofu steaks or strips."
,,,,,"Good product, but by the case, date's a little old ...","Recently purchased a case of Mori-Nu from Amazon ... I'd had this tofu before and the product I got from Amazon is fine. Though, a word of caution - my case only has about 4 1/2 months to go on its ""best by"" date. The date on the box represents one year from manufacture, so this product had been sitting around a while. Not a huge problem but I'll be looking for silken-tofu recipes now (vegan ice cream!), to use this up, rather than just having silken tofu on hand for a while, as I'd hoped."
,,,,,great product.,"We recently started eating vegetarian meals, and this product is organic and very solid, you won't get a ton of water like you get in store bought Tofu, you will be happy with the quality and fast delivery."
,,,,,Pretty Good,"The texture is a little grainy, compared to some other silken tofus (it tastes a little weird to me, but I got used to it). I wish this tofu was made only with nigari, instead of gluconolactone and calcium sulfate. I'm happy to be able to buy the organic online. It was shipped well, arrived with no problems."
,,,,,Like it a lot,"This is much different than the water packed tofu I'm used to but I like it a lot. I've only made pudding with it so far (chocolate, chocolate peanut butter banana, and next, pumpkin!) but I can see the potential uses. And reading other reviews and doing various searches for ideas (mayo! sauces! dips! smoothies!) really help too. I'd love to be able to replace mayo with tofu and create a creamy cheesy tofu sauce for mac & cheese. Imagine the calorie savings!<br /><br />The best thing about this tofu is that it's shelf stable. I read on their website (morinu.com/) that each pack is dated on its creation date and is good for one year from that date. That's useful info. Also check their website for recipes and suggested uses. Each pack has a recipe on it but it's the same for all 12."
,,,,,Good product,I use this in place of mayo for many recipes when I need something creamy and quick.  This also works very nice for sweet dishes as there is very little taste to the tofu and it does absorb flavors well like a chocolate pie.
,,,,,"So convenient, no refrigeration needed!","Love these tofu as they don't require refrigeration until the package is open! I use tofu a lot in my cooking, so have them handy all the time makes it really convenient! The price is not too bad for an organic tofu."
,,,,,GOOD TOFU,"Good firm texture, comparing to other silken firm, this is just the right consistency. Hassle-free, it is easy to come out from the container Tofu shape as is.  Easy to handle and manage rather than crash or smash it."
,,,,,Easy vegan menu item,"I have used this product for many years.  It is ORGANIC/NON-GMO which is a requirement for me, as well as the good nutrition analysis, ease of use, and cost.  Morinu is packaged with a shelf life of 9-12 months, needs no refrigeration, and can easily adapt to most recipes and smoothies.  My pantry is never without Morinu Organic Firm Tofu and Amazon has the best price."
,,,,,vegan dream!,"1000 island dressing...strawberry shakes...tofu faux omelet...!Convenient..fast..long shelf life..delish and organic,I order several 12pks at a time.I will also use this product for baking."
,,,,,It's good,I like this brand and think the shelf-stable packaging is great since I can't seem to find the organic version locally. It's been delicious in my recipes.
,,,,,At last we find a food fit for human consumption,"And we find her here upon this grand amazon!<br /><br />Each day Morinu feeds me like my own nourishing mother, cherishes and consents my whims with this wonderful food.<br /><br />Eschew all animal byproducts and cadavers.<br /><br />This tofu is a strengthening food, fit for human consumption.<br /><br />And so convenient from our mighty amazon, sent right to your front porch or, in my case, post office box with free shipping rather than driving thirty to seventy five miles for the same product at three times the price, plus gas.<br /><br />This is fit food for humans, food for which our bodies are created, food which feeds us rather than kills both the source and the consumer.<br /><br />You may read here written by the self-deceived that this tofu is too mushy for firmness and that it must be pressed between towels before cooking. To them so confused I ask<br /><br />Cooking?<br /><br />Each day at least once a day, I draw forth my serrated knife, and one sacrificial box of this excellent tofu, and I without remorse slice a hole in its top, with great tenderness and care and gratitude, releasing only the slightest and most apologetic gentle spurt of clearest liquid.<br /><br />And this with a certain yearning.<br /><br />I do not observe the indications written sternly upon the short edge of the box, but lie this box gently down upon a smooth flat slab of wood, with the face up, and take the knife very gently sliding upon on edge of the top, the very belly of the box, and then upon the other edge of this top, and then most gently along the bottom edge of this top, each time releasing apologetically the slightest hint of a clear liquid, revealing thusly by means of these three slits the gentle hidden secrets of the box, the soft white substance lying shyly within, awaiting with embarrassment our further processing.<br /><br />I feel the need to explain this procedure with greater care and attention. The very tip, the point of the knife, uncovers tenderly a certain point a certain distance from the corner of the broad top of the box, the side with the picture and product label, as pictured here, the side which reads Morinu, the broad flat side laid flat. The very tip of the knife, I say, discovers probingly a certain point near one corner which offers the proper resistance without too great a resistance, without too little a resistance, to penetrate this membrane. Too close to the corner is found to be too hard, too resistant, too unwilling, although most convenient for the later proceedings. Too distant from the corner implies simply random slashings without specific purpose, and our purpose in this procedure is most serious, most purposeful, intent.<br /><br />In a word therefore the point of the knife penetrates the membrane slowly yet purposefully as close to the corner as possible, penetrating as deeply as possible without piercing the wooden slab beneath. A certain spurt of clear liquid may emerge, but let this prove no inhibition, as the knife reaches the depth of the box. Slowly withdraw the knife, slowly, at a diagonal, allowing the serration softly with friction to continue to separate a slight slit along the ege of the box, slowly, resolutely but patiently, with purpose, as the serration creates an ever longer slit along that edge, as closely as possible.<br /><br />Continue from this first slit along the the contiguous edge of the top of this box, and then the third edge, inserting carefully your knife, and slowly withdrawing with a friction sufficient to separate the membrane without shredding, without eliciting over muchly the clear liquid which may spurt forth.<br /><br />Let us call the top right corner of the box Point A, the bottom right corner Point B, the left bottom corner Point C and the upper left corner Point D. Begin to pierce at Point A, proceed in turn to B, to C, ending at D, forming this a slit along the three edges. Arriving at Point D, withdraw the knife completely, wipe the blade with a soft, dry cloth and set it aside for cleansing. We now may lift the flap thus created, exposing the delicate white contents within.<br /><br />I feel remiss if I do not address a probable misconception here writtenonly for the rhetorical convenience, and I feel compelled by the necesity of correcting this counter-indication, no matter how unclear this may be, due only to my severely limiting literary incapacities.<br /><br />Employing the same alphabetical coordinates as described above, the consumer may discover this procedure far more efficacious: to begin at Point A and proceed gently yet firmly to point B as described. Divergently, however, please proceed to point D (!) and then directly by knife edge to point C, parallel to the Line AB already created, yet along the opposing edge. Having thusly formed two parallel slits, find the midpoint between Point B and Point C as close to the edge as possible, probing and then plunging the tip of the knife through the cardboard membrane, through to the bottom of the box, but now with an orientation perpendicular to that previously used in the formation of lines AB and DC. Withdraw slowly, delicately, yet with sufficient friction at an angle to proceed effectively to the corner at Point B. Withdraw completely and reverse the knife blade, returning it deeply at the midpoint previously entered. Withdraw once more with similar care, and opposite diagonal, completing the slit thus formed entirely to Point C. I am confident the consumer may discover this procedure far more delightful and effective than any here previously described.<br /><br />Firmly we roll back the top flap created by the three slits. Proceed mercilessly, proceed, not frenetically, but ardently nevertheless, to dice within the selfsame box her contents, slowly, gently, but decisively. The fresh tip of my serrated knife, which in recent memory has touched no animal part, but vegetable alone, and never shall become so adulterate with the blood of the animal, with the dairy of the animal, this sanctified and reserved and faithful tip, having never known in any sense animal but only vegetable, purified thus, unadulterate, this sacred knife dares therefore pierce this gentle pure white tofu into a ruthless grid of slits, fully through to the bottom box, plunging first vertically in rhythmically repeated rows spaced gently a few centimeters apart, and then, relentlessly, horizontally, pushing ever so softly through the yielding, unresisting white tofu laid back upon the flat slab, awaiting without a word this process, with utter patience, yielding.<br /><br />Completed this repeated slicing, back and forth, up and down, across, and through, and through, I lift in one hand upwards the entire box gently, yet unrelentingly, over the recipient reserved for this purpose alone. Most often it is the daily lunch container, reusable, with soft top, to receive the more securely and gently this daily offering, removed demurely from its box, as cautiously as a hermit crab from its borrowed shell, vulnerable by exposure. With one finger one may remove whatever residue remains relunctly within the package, passing it reassuringly into the ultimate recipient.<br /><br />Lime juice freshly squeezed upon the tofu deposited there, as ablution, meets fragrant sprigs of fresh green cilantro mated with whole <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000JMFCRU"">Corriander Seeds 7oz</a>, and a generous ladling of the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GZU7QQ"">Eden Organic Garbanzo Beans, 15-Ounce Unit (Pack of 12)</a> also available upon this generously nutrient amazon. This is a meal in itself, and comes most welcome at noon.<br /><br />At night rather than such a cold lunch, in this cold winter a warmer meal is wanted, and so this gentle and yielding box of nutritious tofu might discover herself pushed gently into a saucepan of simmering miso soup, such as, perhaps, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001RMB4WI"">Shiro Miso Paste NON GMO No MSG Added</a>. This miso soup would take far greater space to describe here in the making. From this container of miso paste draw forth a goodly spoonful to introduce slowly, most politely, into a gently heating small saucepan of water. Later, in place of seaweed and to deceive my own palate, I place those small flat spinach leaves available in the organic department of your local market, perhaps with the results of a small onion diced very carefully in the manner approved as described above, or green onion.<br /><br />When quite ready for dinner, I add last of all to this essence this gentle box of tofu, sliced as described above, with great and tender care, leaving it bathing one might dare say, only long enough to warm through and through, before eating.<br /><br />A veritable meal in itself.<br /><br />There are so many other manners in which to use, and to abuse, this pure, white and utterly nutritious gentle product, and I can only with my utmost recommendation say, and this with my greatest gratitude, that here at long last we may know a food most willingly fit for our human consumption, and one most readily available upon this wonderful amazon."
,,,,,"Wet, Soft for Firm, Tofu","Disappointing... while folks like to say tofu has no flavor, I can discern  a type of neutrality and this<br />one is the blankest of blank slates<br /><br />Wet, watery, gelatinous, it is not a product i will buy again soon. I got it because shopping is<br />a challenge.<br /><br />It's not awful, just disappointing. The benefits are the packaging and that is has shelf life."
,,,,,"Taste like granola, not sugar","Even with the chocolate chunks, these bars taste far less sweeter than most granola bars out there and I really appreciated that.<br /><br />They have 110 calories each and 8 grams sugar which is less than Kudos Chocolate Chip (120 cal, 12 sugar) or a Cascadian Farms Chocolate Chip granola bar (140 cal, 10 sugar).  When I need a quick snack, I can eat one with a glass of sparkling water and I feel full until the next meal.  If I need a quick meal I eat one of these with two string cheeses, a large apple and water -- I can make it until dinner.<br /><br />I would recommend these to anyone looking for a tasty and quick snack."
,,,,,Delicious and sugar free.,"These tiny candies are as delicious as they are presentable. Every single kind of them tastes great! They are packaged well. When I am through the bag, I am ordering it again!!"
,,,,,Strong Green Tea,"This tea is strong and has a smoky flavor - you can feel the leafy greenness though. It's not very bitter. I think it's a bit expensive for it is - but I haven't found a replacement. I guess we're paying for the fancy packaging, which in my opinion is a real waste, especially when you go through 3-4 cups a day like I do. Ahmed's Gunpowder green tea is stronger and is pretty good, but is available for cheaper than Dilmah's in the local Indian stores."
,,,,,Disagreeable Taste,"Eye Bought This Product On A Recommendation. However, Eye Cannot Seem To Get Past The Strange Taste Yet.  Eye Will Keep Using It To See If This Will Pass Or If Eye Will Acquire A Liking To It.  The Package States No Bitter Taste.  If It Is A Sweetener, Why Should There Be Any Bitter Taste?"
,,,,,Delicious Alternative to Sugar,"If you are looking for a sweetener that is delicious in tea, Stevia can be used to sweeten hot or cold tea. You can almost say goodbye to regular sugars in your drinks once you get a taste for the Stevia powder.<br /><br />Unlike artificial sweeteners, Stevia is never bitter and won't leave a nasty aftertaste in your mouth. The packets are easy to carry with you and you may even notice you have less cravings for sugary foods.<br /><br />By using a low calorie (0 Calories) sweetener with only 1 gram of carbs, you will be ahead of the game. Every single time you use one packet of Stevia, you are using less sugar and you won't even miss it.<br /><br />~The Rebecca Review"
,,,,,Great Price for Great Sweetener!,"A nutritionist recommended these to sweeten my coffee etc. as there are no negative after effects unlike artificial sweeteners.  Stevia is made from herb in South America. Japanese tea drinkers have been using stevia for years with no ill effects she said.  It's quite a bit sweeter than sugar, so you need less of it as a replacement.<br /><br />I like this brand and put two packets in my iced coffee every morning with almond milk and 1 T cocoa--it tastes like a coffee milk shake for only about 70 calories as the Stevia is calorie-free! The stevia makes it taste like an iced dessert drink and is a great, refreshing treat for the day.<br /><br />This multi-pack offer for this price is about 30% lower than what I can get NuStevia for locally."
,,,,,Cost too much,"Are these people crazy or can I not multiple properly? This is $43 for 24 small cups of peaches.  That works out to $7 for the 4 pack.  This 4 pack cost about $3.50 in a grocery store in the states but because I'm deployed I'm suppose to pay $7 for it?! Not happening. Netgrocer.com is $4.00; higher than a grocercy store, but cheaper than this!"
,,,,,Be cautious,Product has a shelf life of two years and was labeled as produced in December of 2009. Product leaked from seal in carton.
,,,,,Raspberry Dream Tea,"Take the warm scent of Italian Bergamot and blend it with natural raspberry flavor and swirl it into South Indian black tea and what you are creating is a raspberry dream of a tea. This tea, if made with powdered milk, honey or a packet of stevia becomes creamy.<br /><br />Top with vanilla whipped cream and you have a vanilla raspberry bergamot tea. This is the perfect for tea parties or sipping in the morning while enjoying a raspberry muffin.<br /><br />The people who pick the tea leaves are paid a fair wage and the positive energy really does come through in the flavor of the tea. The tea leaves are also organic.<br /><br />I think this is the most delicious tea I've ever tasted! Once you try this flavor, you will want to try all the flavors. I also love the Fireside Chai.<br /><br />~The Rebecca Review"
,,,,,Really Good Juice!,I love passion fruit juice and this is a very good product. Each bottle makes about a gallon. It is low in sugar and low on glycemic index. Has a lot of potassium and is a natural relaxer. Makes great cocktails too if it isn't relaxing enough for you straight up! Fast delivery and great product!
,,,,,"Gluten free, vegan, kosher, and very concentrated.","O.k., so it's not officially kosher--but this is how you make gelatin without cow's hooves, for those of you who get grossed out by Jell-O if you think about it too much.<br /><br />Now foods is a company that sells gluten-free stuff, and this is no exception:  if you have celiac this won't make you sick.<br /><br />Even better, this is powdered agar agar, not flaked agar agar.  That means this will last for months, if not years--although it's also easy to use too much. 1 tablespoon of the flakes = 1/2 tsp of the powder.  The ratio most cooks call for is 1 cup liquid to 1 teaspoon flaked agar agar, which means 1/4 tsp of this powder to 1 cup liquid, with more added for more acidic things like orange juice.<br /><br />However, agar agar doesn't gel as well as Jell-o, so don't expect to get the same results that you would for Jell-o--for that, you need Jell-o or kosher gelatin.  (You can add more agar agar to add firmness; but then it starts to taste like what it is:  seaweed.)"
,,,,,Agar Powder,"Awesome!  This powder was bought as a media replacement for my Ant Works ant farm.  I haven't tried it as a food supplement, but mixed with a little food dye, Pedialite & sugar; it worked perfectly as Ant Gel.<br /><br />It makes a firm gel clear that holds at room temperature."
,,,,,Very good for making jello,I agree with the reviewer who said it won't give you 100% the firmness of jello but it does satisfy my cravings!  Wonderful product!
,,,,,Its agar,"I received the agar about 12 days after ordering. It comes in a slightly different bottle now, but I assume its the same agar agar as before. The bottle has a snap lid (I'm not so sure about the quality of the seal so I keep the agar agar in an airtight container just as a precaution). I dont plan on eating any of this, but I have used this successfully with mycology experiments in petri dishes (the agar is light enough to see everything well in the dish) so it works great for that."
,,,,,Great Vegan Alternative,"Agar is basically gelatin for vegans, (or vegetarians.) Regular gelatin is usually animal-based, and is made from leftover body parts of animals that would otherwise be thrown away. Sound appetizing? Agar is a cruelty-free alternative, and is a great aid anytime a thickened creamy base is required, usually in baking. I use this for many cream pies as well as other desserts."
,,,,,Works well.,"I bought the 2 lb bottle for use in microbio experiments & I haven't really eaten any of it...yet, so I can't comment on the taste or anything like that.<br />But for growing things, it's great.<br />Since it's a powder it's easy to measure out & use, unlike those annoying flaky bars.<br />After the agar sets, it's quite clear which is nice."
,,,,,"100% Agar. Good price, worked well as a food stablizer.",Not really much to say about the product other than it arrived similar to as pictured and works as described. I used it as a natural stabilizer for doughnut icing which was excellent. American Wholesale got it to me in 4 days. I purchased 2 oz. USA product.
,,,,,Good ~,"I needed this for a no-bake cheese cake and I don't use gelatin, kind of creeps me out. But it worked well for what I needed, be sure to read directions."
,,,,,Excellent!,"I haven't tried eating it. I bought it to make vegan DIY pore strips. It totally works! Hooray! I didn't have much luck when microwaving it, but if you boil it like it says on the bottle it firms up quite nicely. Bear in mind, you must add soy milk to make the pore strips. The agar simply doesn't have the ability on it's own."
,,,,,Jeri in CA,"Product was great, but I ordered & paid for 2 lbs.... received only 2 oz.  I have been unable to get any response from custom service.  There is no way to reach the company by phone.  I just put this credit card transaction into ""DISPUTED""!  :-(  :-(  :-(  I still want my 2 lbs.!"
,,,,,AGAR,Very difficult to work with - tends to turn to solid rock even when following directions - taste is less than desirable
,,,,,Better than Oreos,"We have been looking for a good chocolate sandwich cookie since Hydrox are no longer being made or sold, and Famous Amos fits the bill.  Much better than Oreos or other types, it is sweet, the chocolate is distinct and the filling is not too sweet as if it is made of only sugar.  The Amazon price is the best, subscribe and save is new and brings the price down to an irresistible buy, which is even more special since these cookies are not always at the grocery"
,,,,,Pretty good chicken gumbo,"Progresso's chicken gumbo soup doesn't taste all that great when it comes out of the microwave (or off the stove, if that's your way), but it tastes pretty good. It has white meat chicken, kidney beans, okra, rice, celery, carrot, tomato, and red bell pepper in it, as you can see from the picture on the can. Check the picture I uploaded to see what the soup *actually* looks like in the bowl. The chicken was pretty firm and just right, in my bowl. The gumbo taste isn't bad. You won't feel like you're in Louisiana or Memphis while you're eating it (unless you're actually IN Louisiana or Memphis), but it has the distinctive gumbo taste and is really quite good compared to some of Progresso's other soups. My biggest complaint with this soup is that the green vegetables came out mushy, as they tend to with Progresso soups, I've found. The celery and okra were good, just very soft and mushy, which isn't really what I wanted. It did a pretty good job of filling me up, though, as they pack a whole lot into that can as always. Overall a good soup that I wouldn't mind buying more of if I see it on the shelves sometime."
,,,,,A good soup on cold nights,"This is my favorite Progresso soup. The broth has excellent flavor and it's not too salty. Yes the veggies could be a bit firmer, but the pieces are large and tasty. It has some heat already, but I  usually add a few shots of hot sauce to suit my taste. If I really want to indulge, I'll chop up a few pieces of smoked sausage and add it before heating - heaven!"
,,,,,Addictive and tasty,"I am doing the ""subscribe and save"" thing with these crackers. I thought that it would take a while to get through the six boxes, but boy was I wrong. Already we're halfway through the boxes. Time to order more!"
,,,,,Great Tasting Crackers!,The crackers are very tasty and we just tried them out with a little salsa on top for a healthy low cal snack and my wife and I absolutely love'em. We will definitely get more once we run out!
,,,,,Duck Rillettes - not much flavor,I bought duck rillettes from Amazon because my usual favorite duck rillette was not carried anymore by chefshop.com. I was expecting a really good rillette. Full flavored rillette. What I got was a rellette that lacked even flavor of duck and herbs/spices. The texture was good however. Tasted more like a pork rillette. I would not recommend Rouge Perigord Duck Rillettes.
,,,,,Awesome,"I love this tea. I hated my friends asking me if I was pregnant. I decided to diet but wasn't easy. I was always hungry and at bedtime I couldn't help it and ended up with a plate of ice cream... no good. I decided to give this tea a try and I stopped feeling hungry all the time. The taste is great. I have lost ten pounds in almost two months. I walked al least an hour per day, I only have fruits and tea in the mornings, salad and protein for lunch and fresh smoothies without sugar for dinner. If I feel hungy I have a fruit or raw vegetable. I put chopped garlic on my salads, it gets rid of waste too. I dont diet on weekends but my stomach is smaller so I get full with less and less food. I am buying this for my sister It has been awesome for me. thanks!"
,,,,,"Great Acai-grape flavor, it gave me lots of ENERGY!",I loved this green tea with acai and grape added to it.  It made me feel awesome and gave me lots of energy!  I would recommend this tea to tea lovers who like a bit of an extra boost.  I think the acai extracts help a lot and made me feel wonderful.
,,,,,very good!,Can't complain. Taste good and had quick delivery! It was my first time trying this tea out. I usually drink the peppermint one but this gave me energy and sustained me throughout the day.
,,,,,Product description wrong!,"The product description says you are purchasing 6 boxes of 25 tea bags. I received only one box. I called amazon and they said that the quantity I received was correct and the description is wrong. They made it right, but shouldn't have had to. Beware!!"
,,,,,The tea is fresh and the taste is great!,"I would recommend this tea, it has a fresh taste with an amazing acai grape flavor that I have not had before.  It also gave me energy which I can always use!"
,,,,,A decent spice rub for red meats...,"As a spice mix fan, I make a point of trying multiple products on food - both fun and fattening in equal measure!  I've also highlighted what I think are the standout mixes in Chef Tom's line: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000M5TTHI"">Chef Tom Douglas Rub With Love Salmon Rub</a> and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000M5TTL4"">Chef Tom Douglas Rub With Love Chicken Rub</a>.<br /><br />That said, this mix is a delicious treat, but it doesn't hold the attention of the taste buds like the standouts.  The primary notes are supposedly ancho chiles and smoked paprika, but overall the tastes are muddled and don't provide a 'zing' to the dish.<br /><br />It's a very tasty addition on multiple items such as tri-tip and pot roast but not enough to justify the gourmet price.  It is also too heavy a mix to work well on chicken, fish, or to drizzle over a meat-pasta dish.<br /><br />Note: Surprisingly, the best pairings from Chef Tom for red meats are either the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000M5NKUK"">Chef Tom Douglas Rub With Love Pork Rub</a> or a generous portion of <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000M5TTL4"">Chef Tom Douglas Rub With Love Chicken Rub</a>."
,,,,,Slightly Spicy,"Tom Douglas, a famous Seattle chef, has created a spicy steak rub that is especially delicious. I rub this seasoning on the best filet mignon I can find. Then I cook the steaks in a little oil. One thing about this seasoning is it is made with brown sugar. This means your steak is going to burn a bit unless you keep the heat on medium or lower. When I use this steak rub I tend to cook the steaks a little on each side and then I cut them up into smaller pieces and continue frying. This guarantees that they won't burn. To be honest I can't really taste the rosemary in this mix, the peppers are much more prominent. My husband loves to eat the steaks with a little Tiger Sauce. He thinks that makes them just perfect. I have also tried the Salmon rub and the Chicken rub and have found them all to be delicious.<br /><br />~ The Rebecca Review"
,,,,,Best steak rub ever!,My husband and I found this rub in a little market in Philly a few years ago.  We have since purchased it religiously since.  It adds great flavor to steaks that now can't eat a steak without it.  It is definitely a must try!
,,,,,Wholly underwhelming,"I am not happy about writing this review. I had very high expectations from both the name and the high praise given by the other reviewers. I was at once concerned, however, based on the weak aroma at first opening. And, these initial concerns were confirmed at first use... little flavor here. I have found a home recipe based off of the ingredient list with stuff from my spice rack produces a much better result.<br /><br />Beef Rub: Brown sugar, sea salt, paprika, chille, rosemary, fresh garlic, chipotle powder, cumin, and McCormick Montreal Steak Seasoning.<br /><br />Chicken Rub: Brown sugar, paprika, sea salt, chille, McCormick Montreal Chicken Seasoning, curry, garlic, cinnamon, and Chinese Five Spices."
,,,,,Delicious and Easy,"This steak rub is spectacular. I rub it liberally on steak (usually NY strip), let is sit for a while and then grill.  It has been getting rave reviews and we are already on our 3rd jar. I wish they would sell it in bigger jars. Amazon's price is a bit high though."
,,,,,Aguas Frescas,"This product is OK, I think it has too much sugar and the flavor is not that strong.<br />I enjoyed it, but did not meet my expectations."
,,,,,Great glass!  Great Tea!,"I was skeptical because I've seen mixed reviews on similar products like this.  But I'm glad I jumped in and decided to purchase it.  First of all the shipping was fast and it comes gift-wrapped free which is cool.  Second, the glass works great which is most important.  Its double-walled so when I poured my boiling hot water in the glass I had no problem carrying it from the kitchen to my bedroom and barely feeling any warmth.  The filter/strainer does exactly what its supposed to do which is keep the loose tea out of your mouth while you drink your tea.  This is the first time I've used something like this and it works perfectly for me.<br /><br />The blooming tea comes in three small containers.  I'm new to tea so I can't tell what kind it is...most likely some type of jasmine green tea because it smells good.  The first steeping is very mild but the second one the flavor really comes out.  Anyway I hope this helps people that are on the fence like I was about buying glasses like this.  This package is legit and well worth the price."
,,,,,Tea travel mug gift,Fabulous gift.  The blooming teas were lovely and unique.  Packaging was beautiful and perfect for a gift.
,,,,,great gift!,I bought this for my son who travels often - he's told me the thermos worked well & the blooming teas were good for 6 brews!
,,,,,Handy product!!,I am so happy to have bought this tumbler.  It is very handy to have around and works beautifully.  I whole-heartedly recommend this product to anyone looking for a convenient tea-making device.  I love the blooming bulbs and how you can see them while it brews! :)
,,,,,Best GF Pasta.,Just be aware that it's quite expensive for the amount that you're getting (less than a pound of pasta per package).
,,,,,"I just recieved the product (Oct. 20, 2009)","and the expiration date on top of the can says Jan.06,05. I cannot even return it since it is a grocery. Amazon, are you serious?"
,,,,,delicious on salads and in baking,"I like to use walnut oil in salad dressings and in baking.  It's delicious when added to pancakes and muffin mixes in lieu of regular vegetable oil.  It adds just a hint of flavor without being overwhelming.  And with the price that Amazon offers it for vs. what my local grocery store charges for a smaller amount, it is a definite bargain.  Would highly recommend!"
,,,,,Classy product,This walnut oil is the best on the market. It has been roasted which enhances the walnut flavor. I love it with scrambled eggs and in preparing rice dishes. I've even used it to condition my hair! I completely trust Roland Foods because they are superior in every way.
,,,,,Delightful aroma from this oil!,"I purchased this to use on unfinished butcher block, which worked fine, but when I opened the first can the Delightful aroma from this oil had me making a walnut apple viinegret that was delicious."
,,,,,Tasty,This is oil is quite a good value compared to the grocery store prices.  We always keep a can in the refrigerator.
,,,,,My favorite oil,"I used this oil for a few years now for almost every recipe. It bakes really good in breads and it smells nice, and good in salads. Highly recommended."
,,,,,Great value and taste,"This is an aromatic and tasty oil, great on salads or for scrambled eggs.<br />I'm sure I'll find more uses for this as time goes on!  Free shipping<br />makes it a great deal.  My only nit pick is the lid.  Two of the three<br />bottles in the shipment had very tight lids that were difficult to open."
,,,,,Overpriced - not 18lb bags!,"When I bought this food, I saw the image and price and assumed that I would be paying a fair price ($1 less per bag than the grocery store) for low grade cat food. The image and price combination led me to think that I would be paying $45 for 6 18lb+ bags - a good deal. When I received six 3.6lb bags, I thought there had been a mistake. Nope. So, I spend $40+ returning it (I bought three 6 packs - oops) and now Ozbo customer service tells me they take 2-3 weeks processing returns! My kitties need food now, and these people want to sit on my $180 for that long? DO NOT BUY FROM THESE SCAMMERS !!!"
,,,,,Great grain free food,"If you're looking for a great grain free alternative to beef or chicken, this is it. My two girls loved it. We used to put some in their Kongs, then put in dry food and then seal the end with more wet food and put it in the freezer so that dinner would become more of a challenge. The only con with this food is that it can be pricey, as are most Wellness products. You could probably get the same results you're looking for from a grain free food with something like Taste of the Wild, which is what we've gone to because of cost."
,,,,,The shipping cost is a joke.,"I'm on a low sodium diet and use this product regularly.  Think it is very good.  Try their salsa.  Couple of jars of this & a couple of jars of another pasta suace, spices, seasonings, etc.  However, the $44.00+ shipping cost is a major rip-off.  Try one of two or three sites on Google.  You will save $20.00 to $30.00 a case."
,,,,,Low-cost Latte,Medaglia D'Oro Instant Espresso Coffee is by far the best way to make a latte in the comfort of your home and it's also the cheapest!  I use it to make an awesome vanilla latte - just put two (2) spoonfuls of the Medaglia D'Oro espresso in a coffee cup and add about 2 shots of hot water and mix.  Place a shot of vanilla syrup in a tall glass(more or less according to individual taste). Next add enough cubed [not crushed]ice to fill the glass 2/3rds of the way up.  Then fill the glass with enough cold milk to cover the ice.  Pout the hot coffee mix over the milk and ice and stir vigorously until mixed.  Add more ice as needed and then pour enough half and half to color the coffee mix to a yummy caramel color.  Delicious and cheaper than the espresso stands (once you have the ingredients on hand).  Medaglio is also great in recipes that call for instant espresso.  Not all stores carry this product so I order from Gristedes through Amazon.com.
,,,,,Much better than I expected,"I haven't bought this online yet (I just saw it here for the first time today), but I've been buying it locally for almost a year now. I originally bought it for a mocha dessert recipe in the South Beach Diet book. I tried it to make a latte and was pleasantly surprised. I hadn't expected much from instant espresso based on past experience with instant coffees. This is actually very good. I have only used it for lattes and mochas. I don't do espresso by the shot. I particularly like it when I go camping. I've shared it with fellow campers who also liked it. The flavor is rich and can be adjusted to taste by varying the amount per cup. It also has a light froth on top. I recommend it highly."
,,,,,SOOOoo Good and VERY versitile,"I love coffee, but I also love not having to messing with the coffee maker sometimes.  This instant espresso is the best I have tried and I have tried about 7 different brands.<br /><br />Not overly acidic at all, melts instantly in hot water (no sand dunes left swirling at the top if your cup), travels wonderfully (compact jar) and is very versitile to have around for cooking:<br /><br /> -- I but a tsp. in a batch of brownies to deepen the dark chocolate flavor<br /><br /> -- I put a Tbs in a BIG batch of chili to compliment the spices and add extra richness.<br /><br /> -- I add a bit to mexican mole sauce for punch.<br /><br /> -- I also put it in: chocolate granache icing, chai tea with milk for a java chai latte, coffee drink mixes for extra umph, etc.<br /><br />It is over 5 bucks at some supermarkets, when/if you can even find it, so it is nice to know it is cheaper at amazon!"
,,,,,Incredible!! Fantastic!,"I received a jar of this Instant Espresso as a gift from my mother-in-law.  I was quite ""insulted"" at first, as I've never used instant coffee of any kind and couldn't figure out why she gave it to me! Then this past weekend, I was out of coffee beans & this was all I had (must have coffee in morning).  So I made it, & WOW, it was awesome!! In fact, I'm drinking a mug of it right now as I right this review! I LOVE IT!!  However, I make it in more of a latte fashion.  I've also added hot chocolate to it for a mocha latte.  I'll definitely be looking for it at my neighborhood stores, and if I can't find it, I'll be getting it here on Amazon. Definitely a great buy!!"
,,,,,"Versatile ""must-have"" for your pantry","This instant coffee is a versatile ingredient. You can add it to ice cream you are freezing (or gelato or sorbet) or you can add it to chocolate icing to make mocha flavor. It is the ingredient to have when the recipe calls for ""one cup of strong, cold coffee.""<br /><br />As a beverage on its own, it is a bit more acid than fresh espresso. But as a mix with milk, it works wonderfully well. You won't make a barrista cup of espresso with instant, but you will have a great way to make a latte in a pinch and for regular cooking, I personally am never without this jar on my shelf."
,,,,,The best espresso out there...,"I prefer this to all other brands and types of coffee. Even after having lived in Italy, this is my favorite."
,,,,,Quick and easy latte at home,"I was introduced to this product a few years ago and was floored by how tasty and depending on the amount and type of milk added (2% or whole), how chocolaty the flavor could even be.  I've recently moved and don't know where to find it locally so I'm trying the online purchasing option - I'm almost out of it!<br /><br />This is a very nice option for those of us who don't drink coffee all that often but want to have something of quality in the kitchen cupboard.  Goes great with Trader Joes hot chocolate powder too"
,,,,,$4.49 at Whole Foods,I use this for work. It's very quick and easy and much better than the vile coffee they provide.<br /><br />I don't understand the price though. A 2 oz jar at Whole Foods was $4.49 well before the exp. date.
,,,,,Twice the Price as in Stores,"This is a good product, especially for iced coffee, but why is it twice the price as it is in stores?  This isn't a fluke--within the past two months I've bought it for $5 a jar in Seattle and in Nevada, so it just looks like good old-fashioned gouging.  Try harder Amazon."
,,,,,Great product!,This is a great product when in a hurry!  I'm surprised at the price though.  My store sells it for $3.49 bottle.  When I'm traveling I can usually find this at Mexican markets even cheaper.  I love Amazon - usually their products are less expensive than buying at stores.
,,,,,Great to have on hand,"I have never been a fan of instant coffee, so the only reason I purchased this was to use in a homemade kahlua recipe.  The kahlua turned out great so I decided to get another jar to have on hand.  As a tea drinker who has lived for years without a coffee maker, it is so nice to have an instant option that tastes great and has a good kick.<br /><br />Delicious!"
,,,,,great coffee but Amazon's price is too high,"I am very fond of this coffee, and I won't accept substitutes for it. Several of my local stores have substituted another brand. I just order it on-line when I cannot get it in a store. HOWEVER, Amazon's price is too high. It's $4 a jar in local stores."
,,,,,Why is the coffee so expensive at Amazon?,"I have been using this instant expresso coffee for about a year now.  I buy it in our local supermarket for $3.49 a 2 oz. jar.  I originally needed it for a brownie recipe and looked here to purchase, but I saw the $9.99 price and that certainly made me take a ride to the store.  Luckily, it was on the shelf and at a very reasonable price.  Only one store in the area stocks it.<br /><br />Check your local stores before you buy this online.  Chances are you will find it at a very lesser price locally.  I use it now not just in brownies, but I add two teaspoons to a protein shake, and it makes a great coffee shake.<br /><br />Thank you."
,,,,,Coffee is excellent; price here is confusing -- $21.99 for 2 ounces?,"Is this $21.99 price for a single 2-ounce jar or for a 6-pack?  The description only indicates that the price is for 2 ounces, which, of course, is ridiculously expensive. But it's a good deal if it's for a 6-pack.  Previous buyers, can you please advise?  The coffee itself is excellent; I usually buy it in the store and was hoping to find a deal on Amazon."
,,,,,Easy to order; great in recipes,"Medglia D'Oro instant espresso works great in recipes.  I'm not crazy about the stand-alone taste, but didn't buy it for that purpose anyway. As some have suggested I might have found it at a lower price in a store, but looked everywhere and couldn't find instant espresso in any brand, so this order was easy and reasonable."
,,,,,homemade caramel macchiatos!,"I bought this from safeway for about $5. It's awesome in making those homemade iced caramel macchiatos that cost $4 at starbucks! :)<br /><br />(I don't know if it's just me, but it has this slight chocolatey aftertaste to it that's just absolutely divine)"
,,,,,comment after finish,"This is really a normal taste coffee. I would not buy more after I finish this one. In fact, I will still be sleepy after drinking two cups!"
,,,,,Great for baking!,"I love the strong coffee flavor of this for baking, and have been using it for nearly 20 years in my chocolate chip cookies and other recipes.<br /><br />It's also tasty to drink, For a portable mix, I'll use instant dry milk, this coffee, a bit of unsweetened cocoa and a bit of sweetener. Then just add boiling water and stir well to make a drinkable instant latte. It's not bitter or burnt tasting like some instant coffees can be.<br /><br />While it doesn't taste as good as a pulled shot of espresso, it's one of the best instant coffees I've ever tried. It's ability to mix well into baked goods ensure it's spot in my pantry."
,,,,,"for those that drink ""fresh ground only""","I used to work at that well known coffee shop so I've become a bit of a coffee snob and I never drink instant, but if you are looking for a really robust instant coffee that dissolves in cold or hot water and goes great with a little chocolate syrup and cream you'll enjoy Medaglia d'Oro, I bought it during a run to the store for a few dollars cheaper than I can find it online, and much cheaper than a 3/4 lb bag they sell in the groceries stores."
,,,,,Starbucks be gone!,I bought this because none of the instant coffee was strong enough for me and was tired of waiting in line at Starbucks. I tried it and couldn't believe it! I am so hooked on this product and hope that my local grocery store continues to stock it.
,,,,,Mmmmmm...,"There's nothing like a cup of black (espresso) coffee to end a meal. I don't know why it's not on the super market shelves anymore. My favorite way of using it, however, is cold with plenty of ice on a hot summer's day."
,,,,,This seller Action Packaged is over-priced!,"This is a great product, but $21 for 2oz. Really? You can get it from other sellers or at the grocery store for $6-7. Show this price-gouger what the market will really bear!"
,,,,,thank you,"The party I had you send this product to, is ENJOYING it immensley. He is unable to purchase this product in Arizona.Obviously, certain products are not available in his location and I was happy to help out. I want to thank you for your quick response in securing this request and I am sure he will look to order it in the future. Thank You...mario"
,,,,,Tasty plus convenient to make at work,"I wanted to have an instant coffee for work.  I don't like the standard company coffee at work. I came across Medaglia D'Oro in a HEB store in Houston.  It just looks more interesting than coffee.  I was actually hoping it wouldn't be as strong as espresso but not as watered down as instant coffee. I am glad I bought it.  It has the same consistency at espresso but not as strong in taste.  I am probably using more water that what is suggested on the directions.  I work 3rd shift, so I think it is fitting the bill of keeping me awake!  True espresso drinkers may think it is kind of weak but it would do in a pinch.  I will use this for flavoring drinks & desserts also."
,,,,,It was just what I wanted!,It was what I was looking for.  I had a hard time finding expresso instant coffee.  A little expensive but oh well.
,,,,,Unbeleivable strong flavor for an instant coffee-Love it!,"I was camping up on the Mendicino coast and ran out of coffee. I stopped at a market in Gualala-cute sea coast town and bought a jar of this coffee-seemed expensive to me-until, I tasted it. Wow! its totally amazing! This is instant?? why use my coffee maker any more? Hard to find, though. I'll buy it on Amazon. Absolutely a gourmet treat."
,,,,,Medaglia D'Oro Instant Espresso Coffee,"I really love espresso. I cannot find it in the stores where I live so I have send for it.<br />Thank You,<br />Mary E Nevling"
,,,,,Instant Expresso for Cooking,"I love this item for cooking--it is especially good in brownies, cakes--and just a little bit in hot cocoa is wonderful."
,,,,,Take a moment for yourself.,"This is strong coffee like the Italian espresso. A teaspoon in a cup is sufficient. Take care you don't boil the water, otherwise it will loses its flavor. The water should be between warm and hot. I use it black with a small lump of brown sugar. A real amateur will tell you that the use of any sugar is sacrilege. But what can I do? The flesh is weak."
,,,,,The easiest GOOD coffee ever,"I am a coffee snob, and this is absolutely a greatest easy way to have excellent coffee. Got really tired of grinding beans everyday, now I discovered this!! And I am Italian, so I should know!!"
,,,,,"Wonderful flavor. Used by  ""Everyday Italian"".","I spotted the brand while watching ""Everyday Italian"" on the Food Channel. I drink it alone, as well as, adding it to brownies to make expresso brownies. Wonderful!"
,,,,,The Worst Coffee,Medaglia D'Oro has to be the worst coffee I've ever had. It had an old musty flavor and odor. You get what pay for.
,,,,,This stuff is nasty,"I of course prefer freshly made espresso but sometimes instant is good in a pinch.  I travel around Europe extensively and there are several brands available there which aren't at all bad.  This brand is OK for using it as a coffee flavoring in custards, etc., but as a beverage, it rates rock bottom in my book."
,,,,,French Roast Coffee,"Love this coffee, good flavor. The large quantity lasts longer then the smaller boxes so I don't have to order as frequently. It did ship quickly too :) I would order again!"
,,,,,a wonderful treat for the pups,"these arrived very quickly & i was excited to see how the pups would like them.  i like that there are so many in the package.  i've always held in high regard anything rawhide & sweet potato so this was a no brainer....our pups love both!  these sticks are the best!  they incorporate chewing, gnawing, flavor & fun.  i definitely would buy these again."
,,,,,Mediocre,Not quiet what I was expecting.  The cherries were dried and could not taste the brandy.  The dark chocolate was good but too crunchy.
,,,,,Awesome,Gravy could be a little thicker but the taste is great. The price isn't bad either. Makes great sailsbury steaks and stroganof.
,,,,,Delicious!,"Great stuff! Wonderful beef taste, very smooth. Could be a little thicker so more of it would stay on top of the potatoes, but very good, and worlds better than other packaged gravies."
,,,,,Great Sauce,This sauce has one of the best flavors I've ever tasted.  There's a good balance between spice and garlic.  It has decent heat and tastes good on a lot of things.  I'm not a big fan of most Habanero sauces due to the extra bitterness of the pepper but this sauce blends everything perfectly.
,,,,,"Roses Lime Juice the ""Original""","Roses Lime Juice has that lime flavor that the knock-offs do not have.  Roses has just the right amount of sugar so that it's not too sweet. Great for making any kind of gimlet...vodka, gin or even tequila (my favorite).  Since liquor is expensive don't settle for less than the ""Original"" !"
,,,,,"Good, but not great","I purchased this as a gamble, because there was NO product information listed, so I had no idea how much I was getting or exactly what was in it.  I was disappointed that the  ""large"" tin, was not all that large.  It was a round tin, approximately 4 inches tall, and maybe 7 or 8 inches across.  I was hoping that Large, especially for the price, would be one of the large and tall tins.  It's difficult to tell from the picture.  The product itself was good, but for the price, I was expecting more.  I'd probably buy from them again."
,,,,,"Not real wasabi, but butter than what's available.","This is the best of the ready-made kinds.  In my experience, the powdered kinds are truly awful.  The other ready-made brands taste like pure yellow mustard. This one is made with horseradish and no real wasabi, but it works well with sushi.<br /><br />It also makes a great cocktail sauce for shrimp when mixed with plain old Ketchup and a pinch of Old Bay Seafood Seasoning."
,,,,,Beat size for this product,This is the only way to eat sashimi. The customer service is just outstanding!!! Thank you so much! Will do business with them soon.
,,,,,"Good, but no comparison to other WOW's!","I am on a gluten free diet but even before I learned I was sensitive, I LOVED some of the WOW cookies. My two favorites are the ginger and the oatmeal which I would rate 5 star because both are fantastic! Who doesn't love chocolate chip  cookies....right? I know I always have but the texture and flavor of the WOW chocolate chip cookies is just ok in my opinion and my daughter and husband both agree although they are my granddaughter's favorite and I'm pretty sure if she was over 13 (she's 6) she would do her own review and it would be 5 star!"
,,,,,Eh...,Honestly these cookies could have been better. I would buy them again if the shipping wasn't so ridiculous! I think it ended up being like 15 dollars for a few tiny cookies. What a ripoff.
,,,,,Yummy- great for parties.,"These are the best gluten free cookies around. The Snicker doodles are also great! They are great to serve at parties or have for a snack. I wish they were a little cheaper, but they are worth it!"
,,,,,This are so good.,This cookies are so good. There very close to my grandmothers home baked cookies but gluten free. This cookies are soft which I like in chocolate chip cookies but might be a little chew for some people I think there GREAT. Very happy.
,,,,,Economical and my cat loves it,"Cats are finicky animals and what one loves another won't touch - that is not a reflection on the food itself. I have two Burmese and their eating habits are very different. My local Pet Nutrition Center kindly gave me a sample of Prowl the other day and while my one cat absolutely loves it, the other won't touch it. That's why samples are nice. Both of my cats have been on Evo kibble, but this one cat who now loves the Prowl, has a habit of throwing up and I'm on the prowl myself for an alternative food that will help her keep food down. So far, no barf. She also laps it up as soon as I've added warm water - no waiting. I highly recommend you obtain a sample and let the cat decide, as the food is economical as well as healthy."
,,,,,"Less expensive, high quality food","I feed prowl because it is a high quality healthy food that does not break my budget.  It is much cheaper than other premium wet foods (Wellness, Weruva, etc), and my cat seems to like it.  The only downside to prowl is that, since it is dehydrated, you must mix it with water and wait 10 minutes before serving.  My kitten meows at me the entire time.<br />I started my cat on Prowl because my vet offered a free sample. She ate it right away with no problems.  However, she'd only ever had ""healthy"" food, so I was not transitioning from an unhealthy grain filled (but addictively tasty) food.<br />It is very easy to digest and may be a solution for cats with digestion problems.  I recommend (like another reviewer) that you order a free sample and give it a try."
,,,,,Dog Approved,My dogs absolutely love this. I have been looking for a natural healthy food to store in my camper in case of emergency. Last year with all the wildfires I decided to load my camper as a quick bug out vehicle for me and my three dogs. I have been vacum sealing thier dry blue buffalo kibble but it takes up a lot of room. I read a review about this dehydrated dog food from a person takes thier dog camping all time and this was the perfect solution for them and decided to give it a try. My dogs let me know its supper time when I get home now because they are all about this food.
,,,,,Very Pleased!,"My dogs both loved this! It's easy to fix, and very healthy. I was already sold on the frozen raw diet for my dogs before trying this. One of my dogs has several food allergies. This was a healthy alternative suggested to me that I am very pleased with! I tried using hot water to speed up the process for my hungry dogs, and it worked extremely well! Definitely recommend this product!"
,,,,,My cockapoo loves it!,"She's not a particularly food-driven dog, so I've tried lots of organic/natural foods. One that she consistently loves is any kind of Addiction's raw dehydrated food. She can barely contain herself while it rehydrates a bit. So much so, that I've started using hot water to speed the process along; otherwise, it's just such drama while she waits for it. This dehydrated option takes up so little room compared to dealing with clunky cans, and as long as she's happy, I'm happy. I try a different flavor everytime I order just to keep her interested. So far, so good!"
,,,,,Great raw diet food for on the go!,"I've always wanted to go to a raw diet for my Cairn but in its frozen form it took up too much room in our RV fridge/freezer as we travel/camp a lot!  A friend recently told me about Addiction and this is the answer for us - takes up little space in our cupboard and provides a healthy diet, along with a mixture of Wysong Epigen kibble, and fresh fruits and vegetables that our Cairn loves; he's a very happy camper!  The cats at home love it, too!  We've only tried Brushtail but get the Venison treats for variety.  I'm sure we'll try the others, too, for a change up from time to time - (done in moderation and over a period of time so as not to upset the tummies!)!!!!"
,,,,,Even cats love it...,"Note that I'm not recommending you feed your cat dog food on any kind of regular basis: the two types of animals generally need different kinds of foods and nutrients. However, at the time I was having trouble finding cat-specific dehydrated food that I thought my cats would tolerate, and this was the one dehydrated food I found that included a high amount of protein *and* specifically mentioned taurine on the label, which cats need, so I decided to use it temporarily. The cats absolutely adore it. I've since found a cat-specific flavor from the same company, but I'll probably use a little of this now and then as variety.<br /><br />The cats' coats look and feel shiny and healthy, and they definitely vomit less than when fed more mainstream foods. I also mixed it with some straight ground raw meat/organs/bone to make sure they were getting plenty of meat. The wild brushtail certainly seems to agree with them as a protein source, and there are precious few protein sources that don't make them sick (I'm limited to chicken, turkey, rabbit, and a small amount of fish usually). Because the brushtail is wild it isn't grain fed, and thus should have plenty of the right nutrients. Also, according to the company, it's an overpopulated nuisance pest, so this is a responsible way to help conserve the forests brushtail devour and the animals that live there. What's not to love?"
,,,,,A must try for picky eaters!!,"I started out by purchasing the 4 oz trial package of Summer Brushtail and my little girl absolutely LOVED it!!  Now I am getting the larger package so we don't run out.  My Chinese Crested suffers allergies to poultry and grains and was pretty much limited to a red meat diet.  Since she is a hairless variety she was on a red meat formula coated in herring oil for her skin.  The herring left her with fish breath all the time.  This is a great alternative to the fish because the richness in omega 3 and 6 fatty acids and no more fish breath!!  Since she has been on this her skin quality is much better.  This is also great to mix with kibble if you have a picky little eater like I do, just mix a tbsp up in the kibble and you end up with a happy plate every time."
,,,,,The best decaf ever,"This is really the best decaf I have tried... It is hard to find any better than the italian decafs like this one or Illy. Unless of course you are the average local coffee drinker used to embarassments like Folgers or accustomized to all the overburned and stinking like charcoal brands named for an unknown reason French Roast, Italian Roast etc... (believe me, they have nothing to do with French or Italian coffee). Not to mention the local decafs which taste more like tea made out of burned wood shavings..."
,,,,,Excellent decaf,"I normally drink Lavazza Rossa expresso (made in a French Press), but in attempt to cut down on my caffeine intake I have weaned my self to decaf.  while other decaf coffee has given me heartburn or just tasted awful, this Lavazza hit the spot.  While it is not quite as rich as the Rossa, it is still has plenty of rich chocolatey flavor, is beautifully smooth and not at all bitter.  The only downside I have is the price tag and the need to buy it buy the can (rather than the vacuum packet).  Its a full $3 more than I pay for the same amount of Rossa.  It is by far the best decaf that I have ever drunk."
,,,,,It's decaf AND excellent!,"I've looked everywhere for a decaf espresso for my DeLonghi EC355. Tried coffee from the grocery store but the decaf was never espresso grind, ordered Newman's decaf espresso grind on-line and it wasn't that great. Not good flavor for espresso, and just OK for cappuccino. I tried this on a whim because of the price and the super saver shipping here on Amazon and I was floored with my frist cup! It's rich, it has flavor, the crema is excellent! I have signed up for the auto shipment of this and couldn't be happier. I can finally have excellent Italian coffee and I don't even have to leave home OR go to Italy to find it."
,,,,,Great Decaf,Finally a GREAT decaf. It has a really wonderful and complete flavor- not like a lot of the decafs on the market that are just missing the kick. I use a Jura Capresso super automatic to make my espresso- it works lovely in the bypass funnel on this machine (since it is pre-ground). The flavor stands up nice to milk for capuccinos and lattes. This is my every day decaf espresso. I haven't found anything better and I've tried a lot. The Illy decaf is comperable in flavor/ quality but at about double the price the Illy just isn't worth it.
,,,,,Excellent product and price,"Lavazza decaf espresso was the best tasting of the 6 leading brands I tried in my Gaggia Classic machine, and this 4-pack was the least expensive per can that I found on the internet. The grind is not quite fine enough but 3 sec in a cheap non-burr grinder produced the correct degree of fineness for a mouse's tail and perfect crema."
,,,,,excellent coffee,"We love this coffee alone or mixed with caffeinated coffee. Our preference is for dark strong coffee, and this is both."
,,,,,Excellent Decaf Espresso!,"This is excellent espresso and works great in my DeLonghi EC155.  In a side-by-side taste test, I can barely discern any difference between this and the Lavazza inBlu variety.  Both have lovely crema, aroma and flavor.  I have been drinking a LOT of espresso lately and this excellent decaf allows me to do so without being jittery or losing sleep.<br /><br />If you are new to making espresso, save yourself some stress and start with this.  One of the keys to gaining proficiency is reducing the variables.  Yes, grinding beans yourself will get you slightly fresher espresso, but when there are problems what do you need to fix?  The grind?  The roast?  Your tamping?  The espresso maker?  Once you are proficient with this excellent expertly ground espresso, you will be in a much better position to experiment with grinding your own."
,,,,,Great coffee - and I am very picky,"This is great coffee, you cannot tell that it is decaf.  The flavor is just perfect, well balanced, not burned like Starbucks and makes good crema.  Works nicely with my Jura espresso-cappuccino machine.  I bought two four-packs already and going through my 6th jar at the moment."
,,,,,Lavazza decaf Espresso ground coffee,"I've been using this coffee for several years and I am quite satisfied.  For a decaf, it is rich and satisfying, a robust taste for the early morning.  One of the best decaf coffees I've tasted."
,,,,,It is hard to believe that this is decaffeinated.,"When it comes to flavors in a good cup of espresso coffee, it is all in the way how the beans are roasted.  The robust flavor of this coffee should make the most desiring espresso lovers proud. And it has a little secret, which most of us Italians wouldn't admit in public, it is decaffeinated.  Wow, a double whammy.  I've been using this coffee for several years now and no other decaf pre-ground coffee comes close."
,,,,,Perfect espresso,"This is simply the best decaf for making espresso money can buy. At a fraction of the cost, this coffee beats everything else out there, including Illy. Try also the regular variety and ""crema e gusto"". They are all well worth the money. Note: this coffee should be used only for making espresso. Of course, you have to know what you are doing as well."
,,,,,Turned me into an espresso lover,"I thought I didn't care for decaf espresso since it always had a bitter flavor that ranged from a moderate undertone to an overwhelming bite. I enjoy strong-flavored coffee, but bitter coffee is another story.<br /><br />Well, it turns out that I was just drinking the wrong stuff. Lavazza decaf is absolutely delightful. Strong, full-bodied, but no bitterness. Nice crema, smooth and rich. Really hits the spot!<br /><br />It does, however, have a bit more caffeine than other decafs. Not much, but I can feel it a bit (I'm very sensitive to caffeine - if you're not, you probably won't notice it). Not enough that it causes a problem. But even if it did, I'd probably still drink this - it's that good!<br /><br />Highly recommend."
,,,,,A solid Decaf,"I would prefer to drink the regular Lavazza all the time,  but when I cannot handle the caffeine I use this.  It is a very good coffee."
,,,,,"Lavazza & Amazon, you rock!","My hubby & I love Lavazza, our absolute fave! This decaf espresso is just as good as the regular. I can now have it every day, again, without worrying about my BP going up. Amazon, you are awesome! From the time I placed my order, it only took 4 days for me to receive it. Subscribe & Save is a great service, too. I will remain a loyal customer for life!"
,,,,,Tastes processed,I usually order Bustelo Decaffeinated coffee and I am used to the taste being the same as regular espresso. I tried this Lavazza decaf espresso and I am extremely disappointed. It's really obvious when you taste it that it is decaffeinated and tastes like it is processed. I ordered the 4-pack and would really like to send back the three that I haven't opened yet if I can do that...
,,,,,delicious chocolatey taste,I know nothing about this CO2 method of decaffeinating but thought I would give this a try. I usually buy the Swiss water processed. This had a wonderful chocolatey taste. It also claimed to be 99.9% caffein free. Hopefully this is all true because it really is the best I have tried of decaf.
,,,,,Decaf Espresso,Excellent quality product which reminds me of Italy... without the caffeine.  Perfect for after dinner without the effects of too much caffeine.
,,,,,Just like at a restaurant,I've always enjoyed the decaf at a little Italian restaurant in our downtown area.  I noticed that their affiliated deli sold LavAzza and I asked if that is what they brewed for the restaurant and was told yes.  I immediately went to Amazon and ordered and I am not sorry.  What a great price for an excellent cup of coffee!  Now I get the restaurant flavor without spending the restaurant price!
,,,,,decaaff for you,Very smooth and rewarding to have a decaff that does not bite the taste buds. Simply an enjoyable coffee. dz
,,,,,Smooth to the last drop,"This espresso is delicious.  It's strong, but not too strong, and full-bodied and it's terrific for making cappuccino.  This brand is probably my favorite."
,,,,,Decent,"This decaf is OK.  It is a Medium Roast, not a dark roast (says it on the can, but not in the description here).  Also, unlike another reviewer, I think that it is ground very fine."
,,,,,Perfect every cup,I have tried many of the Lavazza blends as I MUST have my morning cappuccino and can't be without a good espresso blend.  My hubby only drinks decaf and we have found this blend to be just as good as the regular blend Lavazza.  Many times I blend it 1/2 and 1/2 for a late day pick-me-up.  Wouldn't be without it.
,,,,,Good value for money.,"I am not an espresso snob. I may roast my own beans for drip coffee, but when I'm making espresso it's generally going in a bunch of milk and syrups.<br /><br />I purchased the Lavazza because I was out of the Alessi decaf I'd purchased at the store and the Lavazza was a good deal. For my purposes, this is completely adequate and does a fine job. At the same time I placed this order, I also ordered some Lavazza non-decaf espresso, which frankly doesn't seem to be as good as the Illy I've been using. For half the price, though, I can probably suffer through the decreased quality.<br /><br />If you're drinking it straight, probably not a good choice. If you're mixing it, it's more than adequate."
,,,,,Best coffee ever!,I recently visited Paris and when I came back to the States I couldn't drink the coffee. So I found a French website that had some great brands but it cost and arm and a leg to send them here. LavAzza was one of the Italian coffees on the French website and I found it here on Amazon!! So now I can have excellent espresso for a decent price!!! Thank you Amazon!!!
,,,,,Better than pricey coffee shop coffee!,I just used this to make myself an espresso and it was one of the best tastes of coffee that I've ever had.  I was absolutely surprised but it was sooo good.  I can't wait until the morning so I can have another cup (or two).  Yum!
,,,,,Guess it's a matter of taste...,"I buy Lavazza regular espresso in the black can pretty regularly, as I consider it the smoothest tasting of all in the supermarket.<br />This decaf in the green can is just as good, but lacks the kick of caffeine.<br /><br />One reviewer loves Bustelo; well it's a matter of taste. I found Bustelo to be harsh and unpleasant.<br />C'est la vie."
,,,,,Great coffee.....,"This is the coffee that our friends, who are originally from Italy, use every day.  They highly recommend it.  They also use  Lavazza Crema e Aroma Coffee Beans, 2.2-Pound Bag.  I have had both of these at their house and both kinds are excellent.  We get it using the Subscription  option which gives you a great discount AND free shipping."
,,,,,good decaf espresso,"I looked all over town and could't find any decaf expresso.  Fortunately, Amazon provided me with the Lavazza alternative, and it was a tasty and welcome experience.  The can is pop top, so no cut fingers.  The product is tasty.  It's a win-win situation.  I highly recommend Lavazza Decaffeinated ground coffee."
,,,,,decaf espresso,"We've only used this once, but it kept us awake most of the night.  We were surprised because it's decaf, but we couldn't sleep for hours after going to bed.  Tastes good, though."
,,,,,Just not real espresso,"I was hopeful, but left unsatisfied. The color of the bean grounds says it all; a light brown not the typical dark brown to black of real espresso, even decaf. Taste is weak and odd, not rich and solid. Certainly not worth the extra $$. Recommend Cafe Bustelo instead."
,,,,,Nothing like Starbucks coffee,"Before I ordered this coffee, I read reviews both here at Amazon and on other sites.  I used reviewers comments to base my decision to purchase it.  I am a lover of Starbucks Espresso Decaf coffee.  I have my own Breville espresso machine at home.  I have been using Starbucks for years.  My Lavazzo coffee arrived and I was eager to give it a try.  I opened the tin to find brown coffee - while I already knew I would be disappointed because I already know I prefer Black coffee beans to brown. While it pulled a decent looking cup, I put it to my mouth only to find it did not match my tastebuds. One sip was all it took for me to hand it off to my husband.  So. My verdict here is, if you are like me and enjoy only black bean coffee DO NOT buy this product.  If you prefer brown bean coffee, give it a go."
,,,,,Don't be fooled by the word Espresso,"t may be expresso grind, but if you are expecting lovely dark aromatic coffee for your espresso maker: think again. Bitter when drunk on own. Marginally better when combined with milk in cappuchino. I shoulda known betta!"
,,,,,The black bean rules!,"The Jelly Belly people actually put real licorice in these jelly beans. There is usually only one of the licorice beans in a bag of assorted beans, so if you love licorice, you can buy them solo. These are authentic tasting and really good. You can't beat Jelly Belly for flavor."
,,,,,This is an amazing Jelly Bean,"I have met the creator/inventor of the Jelly Belly and I can report with full confidence, that this is one tasty Licorice Jelly Bean.  A Jelly Belly is smaller than Jelly Beans and that is why Ronald Reagan liked them so much.  My personal favorite flavor is Licorice.  5 STARS!"
,,,,,Not what I thought,"These jelly beans were very unusual when they showed up.  They came in a package without a jelly belly logo, the jelly beans themselves had no jelly belly logo, and I don't really know if they were actually jelly bellys.  I got them as a gift, so I didn't try any of them, but it was odd giving a gift where it didn't seem like they were anything special, like I'd bagged up some licorice jelly beans from the grocery store or something, big woop...so I was disappointed.  And because they were a gift I had no idea what they tasted like.  So were they really jelly bellys?  Who knows?  I felt silly giving them though."
,,,,,Jelly Belly,"Just because I sent an order of these jelly beans<br />to my oldest son in Roswell, Georgia.  He travels<br />a lot and enjoys a snack while he is driving and<br />he loves licorice jelly beans.<br /><br />This would make a nice gift for any special person<br />in your life."
,,,,,Great for busy families,"I have 3 children under the age of 8 and work fulltime, so we are always on the go.  The Happymorning product line has helped us immensely, not just in the mornings, but for afternoon snacks as well.  It is an easy way for my kids to grab a healthy snack while completing homework before we rush out the door to afternoon practices.  It is also an easy snack to toss in their lunchboxes and I do not have to worry about what they are eating while at school because they are not going to trade away their favorite snack! The Super Banana in particular is my childrens' favorite - they often fight over the last one!"
,,,,,Happymorning Super Banana,"Baby loves this flavor and great because all organic and no crap in it. I give this to her breakfast lunch or dinner, not just for morning."
,,,,,Perfect fo my little dog,"These treats are perfect for my little dog.  I tried the assorted flavors, and it was too much for his sensitive stomach.  The plan treats are perfect.  He's only 10-11 lbs, so these small treats are just right for his size.  I used to run out before I'd remember to buy more, so I am doing Amazon's subscribe and save.  No more worries about running out."
,,,,,"Small biscuit,big love","My tiny Maltese loves these biscuts.He is always ready for his cookie.He goes to the place I keep them in and stands there looking at the door untill he gets 2 of them.They are easy for his small mouth to chew and he loves them.I tried the flavored ones but he did not like them as much as these and I didn't like them either because of the colors.Amazon why did you take these off Subscribe and Save? My furbaby is not happy about that,nor am I! Please put these back on Subscribe and Save."
,,,,,my dog loves these,my dog loves these small biscuits plain. she loves playing with them and then eating them. i tried the fancy flavored ones and she seemed to not really care for those. then i bought some more of the plain small biscuits and she was happy again. they help keep the teeth clean and to freshen the breath. they have 12 minerals and vitamins. they add some variety to her diet. i am very happy with this product.
,,,,,real Diet Dr. Pepper,"My package was mailed out 1st and received on the 3rd in perfect condition. The tap fit the BIB with no trouble or leaks and is very easy to operate. I had a few questions; I emailed and received answers fast by the owner. The 1 gallon box of syrup is much smaller than I thought it would be, about the size of a medium cheese cake box. What I do is drain syrup into a washed out Sodastream container and store it in the fridge. The Sodastream syrup cap has 3 circles in it, bottom, second and top. The top circle is 2 oz. so you would fill it to that 3 times just remember after carbonating you water you remove 4 oz of water or the 1 liter bottle will over flow when adding the 6 oz. of syrup. 1 gallon BIBs are a good way to test if this is right for you before paying high price for the 5 gallon BIBs."
,,,,,my cats love this product,It is not cheap... probably a little overpriced... but very high quality ingredients. NO meat by products
,,,,,"Wellness canned cat food, case","Vendor shipped promptly and the product arrived in excellent condition. This is an extremely well made product containing no grain fillers. I had to purchase the entire case, not knowing if my feline diners would even like it. It would have been nice if the vendor would allow sample purchases of select varieties rather than an entire case."
,,,,,One dominant flavor that didn't work for me personally,"I would not buy this particular Yogi Tea again because I hate the taste of licorice/anise.  The flavor of the licorice and fennel seed is very dominant, making it a sort of sickly sweet flavor which wasn't what I was hoping for with my burning throat.  I think a better blend would be something with more ""heat"" like ginger, which is why I usually drink Yogi's Cold Season instead, for the same purpose.<br /><br />With a sore throat, its reasonable to suffer through a yucky flavor if it makes a discernible difference but this tea didn't do that."
,,,,,"These are NOT granola, but are very good","Oats, for those who may not know, are a grain with a size and shape like barley or 'fat rice'. There are three basic ways that the oat groats are prepared: rolled, steel cut, and ground. In the US, rolled oats are the predominant form and are the type found in the Quaker Oats box or granola. Steel cut oats are associated with Ireland and are basically oats that have been chopped into even sized pieces. Ground oats, associated with Scotland, are just that - ground into relatively fine pieces. These crackers are made with ground oats, olive oil, wheat flour, wheat bran, skim milk solids, salt, and baking soda. Note that there is no sugar and that salt is listed at the end. These are not the kind of cracker that you eat plain (although I enjoy them that way), but instead are designed to be used as a base for a canape, or served with a bit of jam if you want sweetness. These are simple oat cakes that may not appeal to the American taste buds accustomed to sweet, flavored, salty crackers. They are delicious and wholesome and make a good snack."
,,,,,Cardboard,"In general I like Walker's products. I tried to avoid ordering cookies this year and try the oatcakes. They aren't very good. The flavor is very mild wheat (maybe like a triscuit?), but the texture is off-putting. They are chewy and make me think of eating cardboard. I tried them with soup, with cheese, and with peanut butter. They were tolerable with peanut butter. Maybe someone else has discovered a better way to eat them?"
,,,,,Oatcakes?,"I was thinking of purchasing these Oakcakes.  However, in reading the ingredients, I don't see Oats listed. Are these Oakcakes without Oats?<br /><br />Wheat Flour, Vegetable Oils, Sugar, Wheat Bran, Invert Sugar Syrups, Salt, Skimmed Milk Powder, Raising Agent"
,,,,,Whee-Doggy,"This is the only way to fry fish.  If you start cooking with your fire too high, the fish will not get those annoying burn marks.  The fish fries evenly, a nice golden brown.  It adheres to the fish well and does not come off when flipping to the other side.  It tastes good.  I add a pinch of old bay seasoning and a pinch of sugar, shake up the mixture and then add the fish and shake again.  We have been using this stuff for years and I make perfect fish every time."
,,,,,Love It!,"In spite of this product being named ""Cajun Style,"" please don't worry about it being too ""hot.""  It has just the right amount of flavor; not too overpowering and not too bland.  I fried some whiting with it and a family friend said it was the best fish he ever tasted.<br /><br />A suggestion for those who like really crispy fish is to combine the product with corn meal before frying.  I use a 50/50 ratio.<br /><br />Buying it this way from Amazon is a money-saver because of the free shipping and Amazon's great price.  I saved about $1.25 a box (compared to buying it from the supermarket).  Also, having it shipped to me is much more convenient.<br /><br />I fully recommend Golden Dipt Cajun Fish Fry Mix.  I believe you'll be pleased buying it from Amazon."
,,,,,"On the verge of being good, but something's missing","I ordered this for my birthday. I got birthday money from family, and I ordered a couple of goodies, perfume, and this cocoa.  I love hot chocolate, and I'm always looking for new ones to try.  Based on the first review I decided to go ahead and order.  I will probably not reorder.  Mixed by itself into hot water it seems to lack thickness.  It also has too much of an artificial raspberry taste.  I like Hershey's Bliss Raspberry Chocolate much better.  I've been adding one spoonful of the Cobblestone Kitchen to my regular cocoa to give it a raspberry boost.  But, by itself, it does not stand up to the test. I plan on finishing the three remaining cans over time by using it as a stir in additive to other cocoa."
,,,,,There is good and then there is wonderful,"Cobblestone Kitchen's Irish Creme Hot Cocoa mix has got to be the most luxurious tasting cocoa on the market.  We originally bought this cocoa to use as a base for Frappuccinnos but quickly decided it was way to good to waste in a mix.  The flavor is rich and smooth.  We have made it a part of our winding down for bed time procedure - a couple of cups together and just relax.<br /><br />Cobblestone Kitchen refers to the cocoas as ""Delicious and Decadent""  and they are being extremely modest."
,,,,,Very easy to get what I want,"After several less successful stews with curry powder, I turned to this curry sauce mix.<br />It is incredibly easy to get delicious curry stew with simple food stuffs, only with my basic cooking skills while imitating the way of cooking curry in animes.<br />Though it is my philosophy that good cuisine should be made from scratch, but his time I just surrendered to its convenience to get exactly the taste I want with such a simple process.<br />One small problem is that it is too mild for me though it is labeled medium hot."
,,,,,Whew...way to thick. Yuck.,"My first time having Curry Rice.<br /><br />But boy, I cooked this stuff exactly how you're supposed to.<br /><br />Taste...wasn't bad, I guess, a little ""Strong"" though.<br /><br />IT was thick, like ice slush...it was over-bearing and the spice was pretty intense.<br /><br />I don't think I'll get it again...I guess it's good stuff, seen it in some curry making videos...used often, but...not for me, as it it is way to thick.<br /><br />I had potatoes, onions, and pork prepared to perfection mixed with it...and I could not taste them, at all. I could not taste the pork, or anything. Only the Sauce."
,,,,,Disapointed,"We tried this formula because it is lactose free, my baby does not have any other issues, just lactose intolerant.<br />We found that it smells bad, does not mix well into water and my baby would not drink a drop."
,,,,,It didn't kill my baby,"My baby hasn't died yet.<br /><br />If your baby has food allergies and your doctor prescribes this stuff... and you love your baby, it's certainly worth every penny. As expected, my daughter is still alive and she's doing well."
,,,,,Buy These Now!,"These are the best chocolate chips I've ever tasted in my life.  Yes, they are pricey but it doesn't matter because they last forever and you use about half the amount of the regular ones due to the richness of them.  So so so good.  If you love chocolate, you will love these chips."
,,,,,"Ate all 8 pieces in &lt;48 hours. Hit the spot for cravings, stomach not so happy...","...but they were very tasty. They arrived a bit soft, which was fine, as it is warmer out. I opened the first one and was surprised by how good it was. Usually I am less than impressed with sugar free products. But these hit the spot...for five minutes. Then, I was craving another piece. Second one was just as good. Third and fourth followed pretty quickly as well. If you like your caramels super chewy and soft, then you don't need to refrigerate these. I didn't refrigerate the first four pieces. The second four, I stuck them in the fridge overnight. The next morning, I had one as a pre-coffee snack. I couldn't have just one at a time and I ate my second one soon after. The refrigerated ones were just as good, if you like your caramels a little harder. Unfortunately, since I scarfed down this bag so fast, my stomach is not happy with me. And I am unhappy as I have no more caramels. If you are craving caramels, don't want the sugar, don't mind the maltitol effects, and can be content with one caramel a day, then these are for you."
,,,,,Best Sugar Free Candy,"Judy's makes the best sugar free candy available.  So many sugar free candies are overloaded with aspertane, and that has its side and after effects.  These don't."
,,,,,Yum,We found these sugar-free caramels to be luxuriously delicious! a pinch of sea salt heightenes the buttery sweet flavor.<br />Price is a little high but worth it for the quality!
,,,,,Very fresh tea,The quality of this tea is 5 star-it is in sealed bags. We're trying it out to see if helps our nails & skin.
,,,,,"Great price, great gift","The 12 pack is a great gift idea because Omaha Steaks packages them in two boxes of 6.  This makes it cheaper than the 6 pack if you are buying more than one quantity.  Omaha is always fast at shipping too.  Though I've had other Omaha Steaks products, I have only purchased these as gifts, so I can't comment on taste."
,,,,,"Steaks are OK, but bacon doesn't have much flavor","These steaks came out really good, but the bacon doesn't have much flavor and doesn't seem to add to the steaks.  The size of the steaks are perfect though and I would recommend it unless you are looking for a lot of bacon flavor."
,,,,,Good tasting and great gift.,"After purchasing these steaks for myself. I found then to be so easy to store and very tasty when BBQ'd. I decided to share them with my family and friends as gifts, they just loved them."
,,,,,Plant in a Can,"Good idea but the company should use a better soil compound.  Maybe darker.  It's hard to tell if the soil is wet or dry.  Present compound blows away when I water it.  Finally sprouted and I'll transpant to a regular top soil when it grows more.  At least with soil, you can tell when it's dry.  Right now, I will give it small amounts of water weekly until that happens.  Very disappointed with this product."
,,,,,A Hit!,"My grandchildren LOVE the sour gummy vitamins. They really liked the sour gummy worms by Rhino, but alas, I can't find them. These were a good second choice. The big problem is keeping them from eating more than 2!"
,,,,,Excellent service,"I was glad to know that amazon has this product in their groceries section.<br />Though the shipping was individually priced, don't know whether there was any option to pack the glass jars.<br />Anyway, I liked the fast service."
,,,,,Wonderful pasta!,"From taste to texture, Bionaturae makes the best pasta I have ever eaten. I will never buy cheap grocery store brand pasta again."
,,,,,The price is right,"We have a little Maltese that we spoil to no end.  These treats are the perfect size for him and he loves them.<br /><br />He can be a little picky.  Among his daily treats are Greenies and since we found these on Amazon, Zuke's Jerky Naturals.  I will say that we tried two different kinds.  Along with these, we tried the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000MLKXOU"">Wellness WellBites Chicken and Venison Recipe Dog Treats, 8-Ounce Pouch</a>.<br /><br />The Zuke's are really potent.  When you open the bag, you catch a big whiff of how strong they are.  They're probably real flavorful because of it (I didn't try one).  The Wellness treats seem a little dryer.  While our little guy likes both of the treats, the Zuke's win over the Wellness.  Plus they're cheaper so that's even better.  He can't get enough of them.<br /><br />We also tried the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001MWRT18"">Zuke's Z-Ridge Mini - Carrot Fresh Breath Dental Chew Bones, 15 Count Pouch</a> made by Zuke's.  He doesn't like those as much as the Greenies.<br /><br />I would say that this product is one of the best we found for our dog.  Plus we were able to take advantage of the free super saver shipping as well.  These are highly recommended.<br /><br />[Edit: August 14, 2011]<br /><br />He still loves them!<br /><br />We've had to start giving our little guy Remedel for a little shoulder injury he had.  These Zukes make it real easy to give him the pill.  Since they're moist, we just put the pill inside and press it all around the pill.  That way he doesn't even know he's taking it.  Trying to give him pills with the Wellness treats doesn't work so well since they're dryer.<br /><br />[Edit: September 29, 2012]<br /><br />Anyone else notice that they seem different??  The last couple packs we bought were dryer and brittle.  They also weren't as potent as the other ones were.  He doesn't seem to like them as much any more.  I don't know if the bags we bought were partially opened so they dried out by the time the were delivered or if their recipe changed.  I'll buy some more and see how they turn out.  A little disappointed..."
,,,,,"Safe, easy to chew, tasty (for dogs)","I have a geriatric mini poodle.  He can't chew biscuits or rawhide textures,but these treats are soft enough and still provide some workout for his gums and remaining teeth.<br />I appreciate the fact that the ingredients are domestic and it is manufactured in the US."
,,,,,chewy treats,My golden retriever loves them. You can chop them into squares if you want smaller treats.
,,,,,Better than dessicated liver or pepperoni!,"These are not the tough, durable jerky that I was expecting, but small, soft, chewy squares.  They break up easily into tiny BB sized balls (maybe 12 per square) and my puppies will do ANYTHING for them! Best dang training aide on the market!"
,,,,,Healthy tasty treat,"My dog loves the how these treats smell and taste - they are special treats for her. They're healthy, mildly chewy, low calorie treats so it's perfect. They are a good compliment to her regular chicken jerky treats (from Canyon Creek Ranch.)<br />I usually divide each into 2 or 4 pieces while training."
,,,,,good dog treats,"My Murphy (soft-coated wheaten terrier) loves these treats.  They are his ""special"" treat that brings him back in a heated run when we call him!"
,,,,,On the Lamb,"Our dogs love these healthy treats. I like them because they have no wheat, corn or soy in them. The soft squares make a nice sized treat for our little girls. Notice that the first ingredient is lamb, an uncommon luxury for a dog treat."
,,,,,"Tough, brittle, completely dehydrated, and unsafe.","I bought two bags of these, thinking it was the same product that I used to buy in different packaging (light blue, with a see-through dog shape against a grass green background). Unfortunately, it was completely not the same thing! These treats were actually like jerky-- tough and brittle. I give my dog soft treats because he doesn't chew the damn things, and he choked on these horrible things; I had to toss them out.<br /><br />Note that the ""Zuke's Jerky Naturals"" with the other packaging (http://www.amazon.com/Zukes-Jerky-Naturals-Beef/dp/B00008DFPY) have always been moist and soft, and I've never had a problem with those. I suspect that this batch was not new packaging, as I had thought, but very old packaging; these may be the same treats I usually feed my dog, just having sat on a shelf for years. In any case, these were COMPLETELY different treats, and not safe to feed my dog."
,,,,,Lab loves them,"I'm constantly looking for healthy dog treats that are not crazy expensive.  These are one of the better deals I could find when considering cost/ounce.  My Lab absolutely loves them and they are good for him too.  The treats are soft and moist, which is a plus for my dog.  They could easily be broken into smaller pieces, but I generally just give my dog a whole one when he does something good.  I wouldn't keep them in my pocket because they do smell a bit.  It's not an overly offensive smell, but strong enough that you don't want to carry it around with you all day.<br /><br />I definitely recommend these for all dogs."
,,,,,Great treat!,"These treats are one of my dog's favorites! I like this company, they make a lot of great treats, and the ingredients are from the U.S."
,,,,,Dogs love these!,"We normally don't buy expensive treats (tend to stick to dry biscuits), but we got these for all of the family dogs as stocking stuffers for Christmas. They were a huge hit! Our dog is willing to do anything imaginable to get one of these. My boyfriend's mom, who totally spoils her Portie, hadn't seen these before, and her dog loved these like crazy as well, so she went out bought a bunch more when they ran out. Also, they're natural and there are no shady ingredients, so they are good for your pooch!<br /><br />Just to clarify, these don't actually have the consistency of jerky. They are little squares of what looks like pressed meat product. Clearly, our dogs do not care and consume these with great enthusiasm, so still very highly recommended!"
,,,,,The only treats I'll use.,"These treats are excellent. I have a chihuahua who has done obedience training and is now in agility training. I use the treats to aid with his training as they are easy to break into small pieces yet big enough for me to carry in my pocket and grab easily.<br /><br />They have NEVER made him sick no matter how many he eats during a training session and he goes absolutely NUTS when he hears me open the bag.<br /><br />I've purchased the smaller sized treats by Zukes, but they seem to be harder and are too big to offer a small dog as a treat, yet too difficult to split into smaller pieces. So, I find the square shaped ones to be much easier to use for training.<br /><br />They CAN get hard if the bag is left open so you need to make sure to close the bag immediately. I read another poster mention that putting a damp paper towel in the bag will restore the moisture to the treats, so I'll have to try that if I forget to close a bag, which happens.<br /><br />Overall a healthy and practical treat! I'm really glad I found these."
,,,,,Candy for Dogs!!!,"Ernie, my pooch, LOVES these treats.  He'll do trick or command just to get his Zuke!<br />Seriously, these things will make your dog do anything....so, buy two bags!"
,,,,,soft and yummy,"Great product, I am new to the brand but have fallen in love with these products. Not as soft as one reviewer states to replace a pill pocket. Very hard to findbin stores, so the best place to buy is here."
,,,,,My picky dog loves these treats!,"My dog is very picky, to say the least. He's super cute, but is very picky about treats. He won't eat any biscuits, doesn't like most fake ""meat"" treats, and won't eat bacon. Because of this, he has hurt many an eager pet shop employee's feelings. However, he LOVES these treats. We just adopted him from the shelter, and his previous owners didn't teach him much. These treats are making training so much easier. He'll do almost anything for them.<br /><br />They're pretty big, so you can rip them up into much smaller pieces. They will dry out if you leave the package open, so they have to be sealed each time.<br /><br />I know I'm echoing most of the other reviews when I say this, but these are fantastic treats."
,,,,,My dog's favorite treats,My dog loves these treats in all varieties.  They are easy to break in half as well.  The resealable bag is a plus.
,,,,,Not happy about this,If your dog likes Naked bars then this is the same consistency. It's hard and sometimes my dog will eat it sometimetimes he'll just leave it. It's quite hard.
,,,,,treats,Great! I have a dog who is very allergic to lots of stuff and this is safe for him because of no grain corn wheat etc....  the dogs love the taste  I use them for training<br />...
,,,,,treat for dog,This is a good product with great price.  I received the treat and was very pleased with the product and package.
,,,,,Very exalant dog treat,My dog is a service dog and she is kind of out in the woods lots so this is a very good training tool and treat Plus I can share them with other dog's if I see fit
,,,,,Great Treats,My dog lives for these treats!  Can't wait to see us leave in the morning when I give him a few.
,,,,,Zuke's Lamb Jerky Treats:  2 paws up!,"The Lamb Jerky soft treats are the first product we tried from Zuke's.  They were a big hit and continue to be one of my little schnoodle's favorite treats.<br />Soft jerky squares (approx 1"") can easily be split into 3-4 pieces.  We use them for her training/play sessions and she seems to especially love it when the reward is the Zuke's soft lamb jerky.<br />Although she performs just as eagerly when the reward is the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00292BM7C"">Zuke's 16-Ounce Mini Bakes Dog Treats, Peanut Butter n' Blueberryz</a> or the Zuke's Mini Bakes Chicken n' Cherry.  So I guess we're stickin' with Zuke's."
,,,,,GREAT TREATS,"I try to stick to all natural products in my household.  That goes double for my dog.  she is a super mutt with a strong stomach, but that doesn't mean I want to take any chances.  these seem like quality treats and she really enjoys them. I have purchased several flavors and she loves them all.  will definitely buy them again."
,,,,,Pets don't like this one.,"We have two cats and four dogs. The cats seemed to like this treat but the dogs turned up their noses at it. One of them, a Chiweenee, eats just about everything and he would not touch it. He tried it and left it laying on the floor."
,,,,,Dogs love them!,"They smell rather smokey, so I wasn't sure my dogs would like them.  They are rather particular.  But they love them.  Just re-ordered more!"
,,,,,Tasty and good for your dog,"My Boston terrier loves these!  They are great Kong toy fillers.  Besides being tasty, they are made in America... and they are nourishing.  Highly recommend!"
,,,,,great treat,My dog loves Zuke's treats and this one is no acceptation. He did not like them as much as the chicken but they still keep his interest. I will be cutting them up to use at puppy class. Zukes are the only thing other than hotdogs that will get his attention.
,,,,,Terrific for Training,"I use this to train my dog and while he is a picky snacker, he usually likes these. They go a longer way too since I break them into pieces."
,,,,,Our mini Schnauzer LOVES Zuke's Jerky Naturals!,"My 4 month old puppy loves these, and has even learned how to ""go to bed"" in order to get his paws on one! Zuke's is quite a consistent brand, and our pup loves everything we have bought by this company so far. My husband and I like knowing we're giving him a tasty treat that's also natural and is made in America. Amazon usually has these for a little bit cheaper than most of the pet stores in our area, which is also nice!"
,,,,,Buster loves these!,"Buster is a recovering shelter dog, and a little picky in his eating sometimes. I've tried a lot of food/treats, and some things he won't eat at all or is allergic to. (Note: he has no problems with steak that I've seen, lol)<br /><br />The Zuke's line of products are now his favorites; I've tried several items in the Zuke's line, and he loves all of them. The Jerky Naturals Lamb has a strong smell, (thus a strong flavor too, I guess) and he really goes for that.<br /><br />USA made too, so all in all, highly recommended!"
,,,,,Good healthy dog treat,I am impressed with the quality of these dog treats.  Amazon seems to sell these treats for the best price and I will continue to order these in the future.  My dog really likes the lamb variety and they smell very good.  I reccommend these to any animal lover!
,,,,,Yummy Treats!,"Our 3 month old puppy loves these! She would do anything to get one. I love the ingredients, and knowing that I'm giving my dog something good for her. we've had the bag for a few days now and they're still as soft as ever, which is great. These treats do kinds smell...but that should mean they're delicious to a dog right? :)"
,,,,,My puppy loves this!,"These are great treats!, love that these are all natural!  Plus my puppy loves the size of them easy for him to eat"
,,,,,Jerky Naturals Dog Treats.Lamb 6oz.,"This is very good dog treat. Our Chihauhua loves them. It is her favorite. They are semisoft,so the older dogs with few teeth can enjoy them."
,,,,,Dogs come running!,"Our two dogs just love these treats.  One old and one younger but both are active.  The older dog's teeth aren't the best. These treats are easy for him to chew.  It seems like the younger one swallows them whole he's so eager to get them!  Oh, and watch your fingers too:)"
,,,,,Great treats!,Dogs love 'em!!  I mix the treats in their dog food and they wolf it down within a minute.
,,,,,Good ingredients and my dog loves em,What more can I ask for? Great ingredients and my dog loves these. She'll do back flips for em.. very good. great price too.
,,,,,Best dog treat!,These treats are probably the healthiest treat I've ever given my dogs! They smell so good I actually want to try them (but haven't done it.....yet!). My 3 dogs absolutely love them.
,,,,,Bailey's favorite treat,"These treats are all natural so I feel good about rewarding my one year old yellow labrador, and she appears to really enjoy the size and the texture as well as the taste of ZUKE'S."
,,,,,My girls love them,"My 2 doxies have liked everything that Zukes makes...however, I think the lamb jerky is their favorite...nice and smelly, just what a dog wants."
,,,,,Big hit with the Labradors,"Labs aren't known to be picky eaters (gross understatement, I know) but wow, these Zuke's are at the top of their ""we'll do anything, just please can we have one"" list.  No toxic stuff in them, either."
,,,,,Love at First Bite,My Miniature Schnauzer just loves these treats! That's the best review I can give doggy treats.
,,,,,Pick dog pick,I had a really picky dog who refuses any kind of biscuit type treat offered to him.  He eats some soft treats and loves these.
,,,,,Loves them,My minature schnauzer loves these treats!  I sometimes get the mini treats in chicken so I can give him a few throughout the day or on walks - I do not want him to get overweight since he is a small boy.  I would highly recommend them:)
,,,,,Great snacks,My dog loves these snacks and they don't have artificial ingredients.<br /><br />They come in a resealable bag which is good - they do get a bit hard if they are not kept sealed up.
,,,,,Loves it!,"Our Bischon Loves these treats, so does our cat! And we love that they have fresh fruits and veggies in them! Yeah!"
,,,,,Love this treat!,"My dog will do just about anything for this treat. Also, each treat can be cut easily into for small pieces for training. Ingredients listed are good quality. I had no ill effects from giving to my dog. Beef was the flavor I purchased this time"
,,,,,"Dog treats , Lamb","My Min Pin, Snickers seems to enjoy the heck out of these small treats. They are the perfect size for his tiny little mouth. Thank you."
,,,,,We Love Zukes!,"We started off our dog with Zuke's Mini treats as puppy rewards. Now that she is bigger, she needs more. These natural treats fit easily inside her kong toys and in the middle of her everlasting treat balls and give her something different. We recommend Zuke's to everyone. My dogs love them and they are made without corn fillers or by-products, which are 2 things I check for when purchasing any treats."
,,,,,My dogs love these,"These treats went over really well with our three dogs. They're about 1 inch square pieces, so they're a good size for our larger dogs. I also really like that they have high quality ingredients and don't give our dogs the smellies like Milkbones do."
,,,,,One of the dog's favorite treats,My dogs go crazy when they smell these.  They are great for training too.  I put them in their kong toys also and that keeps them busy for a while.
,,,,,Dorkie want a treat,Well my dog seems to like these very much.  Let's see if someone can offer free shipping on these.
,,,,,"Not Really ""Jerky""","It's difficult to tell from the pictures and the description, but these aren't really jerky (dried strips of meat) but are smallish, moist, chewy treats made from meat and other ingredients - I suppose meat goop formed into a shape.  Think Pringle vs. a potato chip.  Anyway, our dog seems to approve - not sure it even touched the sides!  The beef, lamb and salmon varieties she tried all disappear in the blink of an eye.  A tasty treat for your dog, made in the USA, but just not the jerky I was hoping for."
,,,,,Lamb Not Sourced in USA Like Description Says,Under the product features it says all meats are sourced in the USA. I got the Lamb and Rice jerky today and it says on the package the Lamb comes from New Zealand. That's a huge misrepresentation of this product on the product page. Very disappointed.
,,,,,"Ok, but not something they eat with enthusiasm.","My chihuahuas like this treat, but they do not eat it with enthusiasm. They hesitate and let it sit quite often."
,,,,,Excellent tea!,"This blueberry and vanilla tea is excellent! I love all kinds of tea, and friend gave me some of this blueberry and vanilla (and a couple other Dilmah varieties).  They're all great, but this is one of my favorites.  The blueberry vanilla taste is delicious but not overpowering.  I usually add milk and sugar to my tea, but this one doesn't need it.  I highly recommend it!"
,,,,,excellent choice for my dog's 'special' treat,"Bought through Amazon as Snap-Bits are difficult to find in pet stores.  My dog is on a diet and the only treats she can have are few Cheerios, baby carrots cut into little pieces (and yes she eats them) and ice cubes.  Snap-bits are her extra special treat and she knows when they are in my hand.  She really likes it when I roll one along the floor for her to chase after and chomp it down."
,,,,,Another Canidae product my dogs love,These are nice little training treat sized cookies that can easily be gobbled by my 50 and 75lb dogs.  I imagine they'd work good too for the smaller dogs as a more regular sized treat.  They are about the size of a nickel each.
,,,,,Tea,"Very light in taste, but very giood, ty! Also, very fast service! I really enjoyed this prodect! I would order this again! Ty!"
,,,,,Absolutely delicious coffee!,"I am a huge coffee drinker, and love the k-cups for making one cup quickly before leaving for work in the morning.  While there are many choices, I prefer a bold, strong coffee first thing in the morning.  Wolfgang Puck French Roast is absolutely delicious, strong and not at all bitter, and makes a great first cup of coffee.  I would highly recommend to all bold coffee drinkers!"
,,,,,YUMMY,We always drink Timmothy's or Emeril's. Thought we would try something different. Not too many decafs to choose from. We were pleasantly surprised that this had a great taste with a full bodied flavor. I like my coffee on the milder side so I can even get 2 cups from 1 Kcup.
,,,,,Good Stuff,Good subtle flavored coffee for the mid-afternoon pick me up. A bit of sweetness without being overdone. Wish it was available in whole bean as I like it stronger then the Keurig cup can make it.
,,,,,Delivers what was promises,"Wolfgang Puck's Chef's Reserve Colombian (Dark Roast) is basically what they said it will be. Dark roast, but not too strong. Acidity is on a low side, but with plenty of pleasant taste. At the same time you can drink this coffee black w/o the need for the sweetener and/or milk. This coffee is in European tradition and will please many people. I would recommend it after dinner, but not if you need a jolt to wake you up."
,,,,,"My mom said this was not as flavorful as other ""Extra Bolds""","This is the most USEFUL info you will ever need to know about K-Cups, and one that took me forever to discover:<br /><br />Bold/Extra Bold coffee in terms of k-cups does not mean that the coffee itself is stronger, it only means that they included more grind in the cups to provide you with a stronger coffee.<br /><br />There! Now you know.<br /><br />My mom goes for the Extra Bolds only because she has been addicted to caffeine for over 40 years now, and she's frugal and thinks this gives her more back for her buck (or rather mine, since I buy it for her).<br /><br />Unfortunately, out of all the Extra Bold k-cups she's tried, she claims that the Wolfgang Puck is the weakest tasting. She's tried it in both the medium & small serving sizes format, and both have produced less-than-full-flavor drinks.<br /><br />If you are looking for a rich, flavorful, strong-tasting coffee, try the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HKZZ7A"">Van Houtte Cafe Honduras Medium Roast, Extra Bold Coffee, 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>."
,,,,,"Weak, even on small cup setting",This coffee brews very weak - like a light roast.  W.P. Chef's reserve pods are just over half full.  Put pod on scale and it's 15% less coffee wgt than normal pods.  Stick with normal pods or extra bold if you like coffee that taste like coffee.
,,,,,Really Disappointed,"I wanted to like this coffee, I did. We've tried other Wolfgang Puck K-Cups and have been pleasantly surprised. This just did not impress us. Bitter aftertaste, and it has an almost sickeningly vanilla flavor. Smells great while brewing, but just does not live up to it in the cup. I'm really disappointed because I now have a box and a half of this product that we really do not want to drink! Great price though."
,,,,,Drink The Spirit of Aloha!,"I purchased these for my mom and she loves them!  She does not like bold coffee flavors, but is more into the sweet and more flavorful varieties.  This one combines the taste of the islands with a smooth, nutty flavor.  Amazon had a GREAT price on these and this is something that I can actually recommend!"
,,,,,"Great taste, lousy cup","This is a good decaf coffee, but I've never before had a k cup dump the contents into my cup. It's extremely irritating to deal with grounds in the cup and machine when deliberately choosing a system that avoids the mess."
,,,,,"If you want a flavored coffee, okay... but otherwise YUK",Warning: this is a STRONG flavor.<br /><br />I thought that this would be Blue Mountain-y... oh no. It is like... rum flavored or something. Yuk.
,,,,,A favorite at the office,I admit I don't usually drink decaf but this is a favorite in my office and I felt it deserved a good rating.
,,,,,Island Escape!,I tried this flavor within a variety pack and LOVED IT!  I usually add cream and sugar to my coffee.  With this k cup I added coconut creamer and found that I did not have to add any sugar!  It was so sweet and light and tasted just like a pina colada.  I absolutley love this k cup and am planning to sign up for subscribe and save on this one!
,,,,,Just Right and you will love it!,"This Wolfgang Puck coffee tasted great. The vanilla flavoring is just right. Some reviews said it was not so good, not enough flavoring, etc. Don't pay attention to the bad reviews posted on here. I have never posted for a product and I have tried many different k-cups. This is a good k-cup and don't hesitate to purchase this flavor because of the negative feedback. I almost hesitated and didn't buy it and then I figured I would give it a shot. It was worth it to pick the vanilla francaise flavor. You will enjoy it. It tastes better then other k cup vanilla flavors like folgers and van houtte flavor."
,,,,,"Good coffee, but lets clear up the flavors?","I saw the good reviews of this Jamaica Me Crazy coffee, but the reviewers all seem to wander around whether it has coconut, vanilla, caramel, rum or coffee liqueur flavorings.<br /><br />First off, I'm not getting any coconut from it at all.  Some vanilla, but it mostly tastes like coffee with baileys irish cream in it.<br /><br />In fact, after I drank a cup I had to go pick up my son from kindergarten and it occurred to me that some of the other parents might think I was drinking spiked coffee while we waited for the class to let out! :)<br /><br />But its good.  I recommend it to anyone who likes flavored coffee.  Not really anything else like it and I've tried about 20 different k-cup flavors."
,,,,,Not the best,"With so many choices now, I thought I woudl give this a try.<br />The Donut shop Decaf is by far my favorite and this one falls short."
,,,,,Very Smooth Not Acidic,"I used to do the subscribe and save with the Timothy's World Kona, but due to the fact that the price on Timothy's jumped so high, I went to Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed.  Pleasantly surprised, and I must say that I like this one much better than the Kona!  It seems much more smoother, but the taste still retains a nice warm mellow-bold flavor.  Great way to start the day!  Oh, and I love the name of this coffee ;)"
,,,,,Too Mild for Me,"I bought this because Amazon had DRASTICALLY increased the price on what I usually buy, so I thought I'd try something new.  I normally drink Coffee People Donut Shop, which is a nice, strong cup of coffee.  This was a little disappointing.  It's called a Medium Roast, but when I brew a large cup (my Keurig has 3 size options), it looks like strong tea - very light in color.  It makes a very weak cup of coffee.  When I brew the smallest cup possible, it's a tiny bit better, but I prefer a large cup of strong coffee.  Think I may try the Rodeo Drive or Sorrento, but this one is just too weak and light for me.  (Oddly enough, the first time I tried Donut Shop, I thought it was too strong...as I had been used to weaker coffees.  Now that I've started drinking the stronger varieties, it's hard to go back to ""brown water."")"
,,,,,A must have on my carousel!,"I wasn't expecting this one to be so rich or full!  Yet it has a smoky finish that is typical of a French roast but doesn't taste burnt.  I think alot of times a French roast tastes thin and yet bitter instead of full and smoky, but not this one! Very pleased with it and will definitely order again.  If you like a stronger cup in the morning, without being bitter, give this one a try."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Columbian,Very good tasteing product but I need to use it the smallist setting on my B-60 to really enjoy the depth.
,,,,,Delectable!,"I am still waiting for Peets to come out with Kcups, but in the meantime, the Wolfgang Puck's coffees are filling the bill. I really like Sorrento AND Rodeo Drive---smooth and full bodied.<br />JS"
,,,,,A strong yet bitter brew,"As a French Roast fan, I bought this brand of K-cup with high expectations, considering the name attached to it. I was disappointed. It has a hearty aroma and full-bodied flavor but leaves a bitter aftertaste.<br /><br />If you're a lover of the more robust roasts, I would recommend trying the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002L41Y8A"">Coffee People Kona Blend Island Style, Extra Bold K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 50)</a> instead. It is a smooth blend with none of the bitterness that delivers that kick you're likely looking for."
,,,,,Definitely a good breakfast indeed!,"Not too bold, not too weak...not bitter.  Good way to start if your not into the real strong coffees.  My husband and I have added the Wolfgang Puck ""Breakfast in Bed"" line and the ""Rodeo Drive"" flavors to our buying ritual."
,,,,,Decent,"This flavored K-Cup isn't out of this world, but isn't horrible. In my opinion, it's way more flavorful than the Wolfgang Puck Hazelnut K-Cup. We love flavored coffee in our house, and so I would go with this one again. Worth a try."
,,,,,Milder than expected,"Never had Hawaiian Hazelnut before so I didn't know what to expect, but it turns out it's pretty good, not as flavored as say DD, but nonetheless pretty good. I have it on subscription now along with the German Chocolate Cake, another one of my favorite flavored K-cups."
,,,,,Breakfast in Bed Coffee K-Cups,"This has made me into a coffee lover!  Very  mild and easy on the stomach, but with a great flavor.  Love it!"
,,,,,Enjoyable cup of coffee,"Nice, light cup of coffee. Definitely not a bold brew but it's smooth and gentle on the stomach.....good for those mornings when you over did it the night before. Would buy again."
,,,,,Smooth and light breakfast coffee,This is a very balanced and smooth light coffee great for a first cup of the day.
,,,,,Wonderful coffee!,This is a great cup of hazelnut coffee; smooth and balanced with no chemical aftertaste.  My husband and I like it so much that we've ordered it twice directly from the Keurig manufacturer.  SO GLAD that it's now available on Amazon through subscribe and save!
,,,,,IT IS NOT DECAF PEOPLE!!!,"I'm amazed how many are being so easily fooled.  What you're seeing is a GENERIC ingredient list that covers multiple coffees.  What it is saying, based on the photo I see above, is that IF the coffee type you have is straight coffee, then all it contains is 100% arabica coffee...  But IF what you are drinking is a FLAVORED coffee, then the ingredients in it are Arabica coffee, and flavorings...  But IF what you're drinking is a DECAF variety, then it contains Arabica coffee that has been decaffeinated with Ethyl Acetate, as is standard.<br /><br />So if you're not holding a decaf variety, then there is no decaffeinated beans!  It is nothing more than generic catch all ingredients that apply to whichever variety you happen to be looking at.<br /><br />Sheesh.  Think people! lol"
,,,,,FLAVORED COFFEE??,Nowhere in the description does it mention anything about this coffee being flavored. I'm still not sure what flavor it is. Some type of nut. I wrongly assumed that Jamaican coffee would be similar to the Blue Mountain coffee which Jamaica is known for! How silly of me to assume that! I hate flavored coffees so I was so disappointed to now own 2 boxes of such a horrible coffee. It only says flavored very small on the box so I didn't notice it before I opened it. Hopefully I can pawn it off to visitors and buy some regular bold coffee-flavored coffee for myself!
,,,,,misleading,No where in the description does it mention that this is a flavored coffee.  By the name I thought it was a Jamaican Blue Mountain blend but its flavored with a weak tasting hazelnut.  Not very good
,,,,,Non-Flavored coffee drinkers beware!,I was in a hurry and did not read the reviews...I trusted amazon's description and it did NOT indicate it was flavored coffee and that it was NOT Jamaican...it is very lightly flavored with vanilla so it isnt too bad. I feel cheated.
,,,,,Heavily Flavored - Not For Us,"I thought this was a Jamaican blend or roast, but turns out it's simply a heavily flavored coffee.  The flavor tastes artificial - like fake maple syrup flavoring.  We have three coffee drinkers in our house and none of us could get past the first few sips.  Now I have to find a home for the rest of it so it doesn't go to waste."
,,,,,"Not Jamaican at all, just another sweet, flavored coffee!","I wish Amazon would require any coffee with sweet artificial flavorings to be plainly identified as such.  Then folks who really dislike coffee adulterated this way could avoid getting another disappointing flavored cup of coffee.  This stuff tastes the way I imagine Newman's Own Extra Bold coffee would taste with curdled, spoiled Bailey's Irish Cream dumped in it - nasty.  Shudder!!!"
,,,,,Great name but I didn't care for it,I drink about 4 to 6 cups of coffee every morning - I'm always looking for a new flavor - so I gave it a try - I drank it but I would not order again. steve
,,,,,"Good, but not my favorite","I like strong, but smooth coffee. This coffee is strong enough, but a little on the bitter side for my taste. I have tasted other strong blends that I like much more. My husband, who likes a medium roast coffee, is OK with this coffee, but it not his favorite either. I would only recommend it to someone who likes a little tang in their morning cup of joe."
,,,,,These K Cups Have ISSUES - Coffee Not Bad,"First of all, I have owned a Keurig for about 4 years now, and I've tried lot's of coffee.  During that time, I have had an occasion k cup that didn't function correctly and loaded the brew with grounds.<br /><br />I probably should have returned these before I bothered to open the second box.  Since I drink my coffee from a thermal cup, I can tell you that taking that last drink to find your mouth full of coffee grounds stinks.<br /><br />I have had to throw out at least 6 cups of coffee.  Its a bit like Russian Roulette, and I've started straining it after I brew it.<br /><br />I know that its not my brewer because it is not happening with the Green Mountain, Timothy's or Tully's that I also use.  The good cups are a bit weak for my taste, but the flavor is ok.  Definitely prefer not to waste $'s on a product with a manufacturing defect."
,,,,,Rodeo Drive is Crazy Good Coffee!,Rodeo Drive is my absolute favorite and I'm ready to order more!  That's if I can find it.<br />I don't know why they are discontinuing it.<br />It arrived very fast.
,,,,,"Good, but not Wolfgang Puck good","Honestly, I have to admit that I expected a little better. That's not to say that this is bad coffee - in fact it's quite bold without being too acidic, and pretty satisfying overall. I think my main problem is that Wolfgang Puck's name is attached to it, so perhaps it set my expectations a little high. I have a Wolfgang Puck knife set that I adore, and is very high quality for what I paid for it. This coffee was on sale, so it was well worth it also, I just hoped for something that would knock my socks off - which it didn't. I also purchased the Breakfast blend, and Jamaica me crazy at the same time. The breakfast blend was the best, in my opinion, and the jamaican coffee smelled the best, but was the least successful."
,,,,,Good Coffee from Amazon.com,"The Breakfast In Bed coffee from Wolfgang Puck is  a good medium roast coffee.  My husband, the regular coffee drinker of our house, likes it, but feels he would like the coffee more if it were a bit stronger.  The product arrived quite soon after ordering."
,,,,,Tasteless and watery,"I'm not a gourmet coffee critic, but this stuff is disappointing.  Based upon previous good reviews, I suspect that the coffee in the K-cups I received is not the same -- they may have changed the manufacturing.  The Wolfgang Puck Decaf I received is lifeless, watery, and tasteless.  There's no aroma when it's brewing in the Keurig.  Never again."
,,,,,Wonderful K-cups,"The Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Chef's Reseerve Columbian Decaf is fantastic and very delicious.  I definitely recommend this product to anyone who wants a great cup of coffee."
,,,,,My favorite of the WP K cups.,Nice round flavor. Not harsh or botter. I enjoy it with French Vanilla creamer.  Lately it has been harder to find.  I do hope they have not discontinued it!
,,,,,Bad Cups,"Coffee tastes great, but the cups get torn apart when brewing.  What a mess that is!!  I am quite disappointed because I do like this flavor of coffee!!"
,,,,,Somewhat disappointing,"Perhaps my expectations were too high. When I see the name ""Wolfgang Puck"", I expect to be impressed. This (to my taste) is very average tasting coffee. To be fair, it is billed as a medium roast, and that's what it is. However, it's just too bland for my taste.<br /><br />If you want decaf with more character, try Green Mountain Coffee's Dark Magic Decaf <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B006N3I2SK"">Green Mountain Coffee Decaf Dark Magic, K-Cup Portion Pack for Keurig Brewers 24-Count</a>, or Emeril's Jazzed Up Decaf <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004616B3Y"">Emeril's Jazzed Up DECAF 48 K-Cups</a>. They are darker roasts though, so if you want a milder coffee the Wolfgang Puck might be what you are looking for."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck K-cup decaf,This is my wife's favorite. She grew up in Seattle and has consumed countless gallons of various types of coffee in her lifetime so I assume this is good coffee. She is also my wine taster as her palate is much more sensitive than mine.
,,,,,Bitter taste,"I tried this product solely for the fact it has Wolfgang's name on it.  I should have stuck with Timothy's brand.  This was way too strong to be labeled a breakfast coffee, more like a dinner coffee.  I will not be buying this again, also way too expensive compared to the others."
,,,,,Wonderful coffee,"Love this coffee, but cannot buy it through regular outlets, so am gouged by SASA Corner. Really sticks in my craw paying more than a buck a cup."
,,,,,Our favorite k-cup yet,"We were given a Keurig for a wedding present, along with several variety packs. So far, Wolfgang Puck's Jamaica Me Crazy is our favorite, and we will definitely be repeat buyers of this flavor."
,,,,,My favorite!,"This is my favorite late evening cup of coffee.  Nice flavor, just right before retiring for the night. Keep stocking this brand and I will keep coming back for it!!"
,,,,,Great Flavor & Coffee,It's a great flavor and makes a great cup of coffee. I fine you can have more than 1 cup of this coffee and not feel like it's too much of a flavored coffee. Puck has captured a great flavor with this coffee.
,,,,,Beware!  Flavored Coffee...,"It sure would be nice if they stated ANYWHERE in the description of this coffee that it is flavored.  I love the Bed and Breakfast coffee, it's just plain coffee, so I was surprised when I received the Jamaica coffee and it was flavored.  YUCK!"
,,,,,so disappointing,"I ordered 3 boxes of 18 each.............and opened one box to find they were PODS and not<br />for Keurig, AND I can't return them!!!?????  Yes,the pods fit into the Keurig but<br />the end product is weak and awful.  I am most disappointed"
,,,,,Yummy Coffee,I love the Wolfganag Puck flavors.  This Vienna blend is very nice.  It is medium roast so it is not too strong.  Has a wonderful flavor without being a flavored coffee.  One of my favorites.
,,,,,The BEST coffee EVER!!!,We purchased an assorted package of K-Cups (by various makers) and of all the coffees THIS is my FAVE!  I really can't see any reason to ever taste-test another flavor!  It smells delicious and TASTES DELICIOUS too!!
,,,,,poorly sealed,"The coffee is good. However, at least half of these haven't been sealed correctly. When I brew them the edge of the foil pops open and coffee grounds go everywhere. Not fun to clean. It may have just been the batch we got, but I won't be ordering these again."
,,,,,Decent flavor,Well the creme caramel was on sale so I decided to give it a shot. Plus the fact that each K Cup is individually prepared by Mr. Puck himself. Anyway I quite enjoy these. I never buy flavored ones so overall I'm happy with these but they are definitely not my favorite as I usually buy the bolder ones and these are fairly mild.
,,,,,Tastes like i didn't change the kcup from the last cup,"Honestly the first time I tried Jamaica me crazy I had to double check to make sure that I didn't leave the pod irom my last cup n the coffee maker. Weak coffee, flavor didn't appeal to me either. Might appeal to someone who likes their coffee on the weaker side. Wolfgang's vienna roast was pleasant though."
,,,,,K cups disfigured and unusable,"Love the flavor, but 12 of the cups in the 24 count box were misshapen/melted, as if they'd been exposed to heat during filling.  My husband used two of the ones that were not affected, so I'm not returning them, but certainly wish quality control had caught this.  The affected k cups are so misshapen they will not fit into the space in the Keurig."
,,,,,Wolfgand Puck's Breakfast in Bed Coffee,"Never got a delivery as fast as we did this time.  We were running low on our special coffee. We have sampled many K-cup coffees, some in assorted packs and decided this is the best.  It is mellow, never bitter and always totally enjoyable."
,,,,,Second favorite,"This is my second favorite after the breakfast in bed flavor. I love Wolfgang Puck coffee. It's a little bolder then the breakfast in bed, but still smooth."
,,,,,"""Breakfast in Bed"" - Great, smooth, medium roast coffee. Confirmed: this is not decaf.","This is our favorite K-cup at home. Mellow and flavorful.<br /><br />Also, I wanted to clear-up the question of whether or not this is decaf - it is not. See the response I received from WP Coffee:<br /><br />""Is Breakfast in Bed K-cup actually a decaf coffee?""<br /><br />""Thanks for reaching out to Wolfgang Puck Coffee. The Breakfast in Bed is not a decaf blend....""<br /><br />Thanks.<br />Mandy M<br />Customer Service<br />Wolfgang Puck Coffee"
,,,,,Hawaiian Hazelnut Always Out of Stock,"The Hawaiian Hazelnut is my favorite K-Cup flavor from any vendor, but it's ALWAYS out of stock on Amazon.com; it seems that all of the other Puck flavors are available for a very reasonable $16.54/24-cup price and sold directly by Amazon.com, but HH's price fluctuates wildly from 3rd-party resellers and hasn't been available directly from Amazon.com for months.  As I'm writing this (8/24/12) the price of a 24-pack is $34.99 from the cheapest 3rd-party retailer, which is absolutely ridiculous.  AMAZON, why can't you stock the Hawaiian Hazelnut the same way you stock the other flavors??  The fact that I would take the time to write a review about this should tell you how much I like the product..."
,,,,,"Good taste, but seals are loose so they're busting open while brewing","The vanilla coffee taste is pretty good and mild, as I expected. But I bought it for a discount from the Amazon Warehouse (otherwise K-Cups are a little expensive). When Amazon does this, it usually means they are trying to get rid of this stock quickly.<br /><br />As I expected, the expiration date is for a month or two from now, so they were trying to get rid of them. I also noticed the seals didn't seem as tight as they normally are. This also could be because it was sitting in Amazon's warehouse in the heat all summer.<br /><br />As I expected, about half of these K-cups burst open while brewing. (This is not usual, and I've tried many different brands.) This made them leak (so clean-up was kind of annoying) and not taste as fresh, but it still tasted decent. Bottom line: When K-cups are discounted from Amazon Warehouse, be ready to pay in other ways! lol"
,,,,,yummy,this is just the perfect thing to end a tired day.  the taste is smooth and warm and creamy.  i find that i look forward to having a cup while i read for a few minutes. what a treat.
,,,,,This coffee is DECAF! Just so yah know does not say on page.,This coffee is good and has nice subtle flavor. I am disappointed though because I looked at the bottom and it says decaf. I dunno bout you but I drink coffee for the caffeine. In the picture on bottom of box has text but it is so small I did not even consider looking on it. So just disappointed that is decaf and does not say on page when ordering.
,,,,,good vanilla coffee,This is good vanilla coffee.  I got this and the green mountain and prefer this one.  It has a nice sweet flavor
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut K-Cup Coffee,"Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut Coffee for Keurig brewer.  Good medium strength coffee with Hazelnut flavor. Full-body, enjoyable anytime of the day. I really like this coffee."
,,,,,The Sorrento is soothingly smooth good blend!  No after taste!,"I really enjoy Wolfgang Puck's K-Cups, so far all the ones I've tried haven't left my stomach churning..and,<br /><br />this was my first time trying out the Sorrento Fair Trade Roast and purchased it on a Warehouse Amazon price deal.  I am really happy with my purchase.  The taste of the Sorrento is what I would expect of a Medium Roast = A good, smooth blend.  No bitter, acidic after taste, and leaves you wanting for more after that first cup!  (At least, it left me)! :p  It's doesn't leave you with the ""shhhakes"" either, it has that right ""balance"" you need with your daily cup of coffee.<br /><br />Yes, I will be getting another 24-Count of this when I am finished with this pack!<br /><br />5-Stars!"
,,,,,Close to expiration date.,"Coffee quality is as good as expected but, close to expiring. Next time, I will spend the extra few dollars and buy the coffee localy."
,,,,,Best so far,"I'm a relative newcomer to Keurig coffee, but I do know that I was generally disappointed in the drink produced. However, the Breakfast in Bed K-Cup produces a nicely balanced, not-too-thin cup without being too harsh. I still haven't achieved anything like what I can make either with my french press or with my drip machine, but it's definitely better than the at-work alternative, Community Coffee."
,,,,,Makes a great cup of coffee,"If you like a balanced cup of joe, this is a great choice. The coffee is smooth and balanced. There is no bitterness or bite. Thank you Chef Puck for this fantastic decaf coffee choice!"
,,,,,Breakfast in bed!,"Smooth with a hint of flavor.  Medium boldness yet rich in taste.  Not a ""wake me up"" but certainly enjoyable!"
,,,,,excellent taste,My second purchase of this  cofee & like the first cup it has been wonderful to wake up to.  Not too bold or brash but a good drink to start the day with
,,,,,Best Coffee EvER!!!!,"The best thing that I look foreward to every morning . It makes my day ,the best tasting coffee ever"
,,,,,Good coffee for strong coffee lovers!,I really enjoy this one and I've tried many! In my top 5. A little pricey but will order again sometime in the future.
,,,,,"Good, if you like flavored coffee","I too purchased this product thinking it might not be a flavored product, and before it arrived I looked it up to see that there was some rumor as to a coconut flavor.<br /><br />So, lets get this out of the way. *********Do Not Purchase this is you do not like flavored coffee. It is flavored.<br /><br />The first thing you notice is a deep coconut aroma, almost akin to Hazelnut in its presentation. The initial mouthfeel is good, a light roast but a snappiness to the roast which settles in nicely with the flavor, which<br />has a definite dark chocolate taste without the bitterness.<br /><br />The finish is semisweet chocolate, Jamaican coffee and faint toasted coconut.<br /><br />Bottom Line: if you like flavored coffee with coconut/hazelnut/cocoa profiles, you will like this coffee."
,,,,,Woflgang Puck Favorite !!,"Jamaica Me Crazy is an awesome smooth coffee, Light Coconut/Vanilla flavorful taste.<br />a good coffee if you don't like real strong coffee.Highly recommend."
,,,,,"Great, considering I usually prefer a light/medium roast","I got one K-Cup of Wolfgang Puck's Colombian Reserve dark roast as part of a variety 35-pack that I bought here on Amazon. Since I'd always assumed that I preferred the less-burnt flavor of a light or medium roast, I was pleasantly surprised that I enjoyed the way this coffee sat on my tongue. It is sweet, full, and gently bitter. I brewed it in a 9.25 oz. cup in an effort to dilute it a little, but I may be gutsy enough to try a 7.25 oz. cup the next time around."
,,,,,MMMMM,"Smooth, delicious, can't wait to wakeup with my coffee! I love all the Wolfgang Puck coffee flavors...never a dull flavor!"
,,,,,Wonderful coffee!!,This is our first time trying the Wolfgang Puck coffee - so glad we did!!!  It is a wonderful medium blend and great for any time of day!  I would buy it again!
,,,,,Best High-quality K cup,This is the best k cup coffee that we have been able to find.  Very rich flavors and a medium + roast.  We love this one!
,,,,,Smells amazing!,I'm not a huge flavored coffee fan. Usually I prefer lattes with flavored syrups. A friend sent me a K-Cup to try and the smell was mouth watering before it even finished brewing. The flavor was strong enough to drink it only with milk; I added a little vanilla syrup when I reheated it. I am not a coconut fan but the flavor is barely there. It is just a unique taste for when you're in the mood for something different!
,,,,,Wolfgang puck coffee vanilla francaise,I loved this brand.  It was the best vanilla flavor of others I tried.  I would buy more if it was a better price.
,,,,,Breakfast in Bed is a treat,"Fantastic taste, smooth ""feel"", no nasty aftertaste, pairs great with creamer. What more can one want from a coffee? This has become my favorite."
,,,,,Love it!,Best flavored k cup I've ever had! I recommend this for everyone. Great flavor! I've given it to all my friends and they get hooked.
,,,,,Amazing!,"I didn't know what this would taste like, but I'm so glad I ordered it.  What a perfect cup of yummy coffee for a cool summer morning!"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed coffee,"Wake up to a cup of Wolfgang Puck Coffe Breakfast in Bed (medium Roast) K-cup for Keurig. is a great way to start your day, or just sit down and relax. Try it and you will be buying more.<br /><br />Shop Amazon for Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Breakfast in Bed"
,,,,,Bold Great Taste!,This is a favorite in the office and in my house. We burn through this coffee. I've tried a few of the other Wolfgang coffees and this one is by far the best. I've seen better prices for this at a lot of other places. This is an excellent coffee to start your day with.
,,,,,Great blend to get the day started =),"I've tried a wide selection of k-cups including the big names like Starbucks, Tully's, Donut House, Dunkin Donuts, etc and they all have something in common.. either too watery (weak) or too bitter (strong). I tried Breakfast in Bed based on the reviews and I was not disappointed. It's flavorful without being strong or weak. It's hard to get a cup of coffee from a Keurig that tastes like it was brewed like a normal coffee machine.. this k-cup is the exception.. I'll be stocking up."
,,,,,A Loyal Wolfgang Puck Customer,"love the wolfgang puck restaurants,cookware,brand endorsed products, all his brand products / cuisine are amazing, i am a loyal fan, yet this creme caramel coffee is tasteless, no real coffee flavor, no hint of caramel or creme, it brews like a bit of steamed milk, that somewhat pasty tasteless feel on your palate. soooo dissapointed as i am such a loyal fan of all his brand, products. sadly,a waste of funds, did not return because i think food items are none refundable."
,,,,,Hated it!,"Didn't realize it was flavored and thought, when I had my first sip, that it tasted like chemicals. F-. Gave it away the next day at work."
,,,,,Good but not perfect,"Good, but the Green Mountain reserve Sumatra is better by 1- 1 and a half stars. Sort of tastes a little stale."
,,,,,wolfgang puck k cup breakfast in bed,Wonderful flavor would purchase this blend of coffee again light flavor not bitter at all and price was great the best I found anywhere
,,,,,Smooth coffee taste,I find many of the K cups are a bit bitter for my taste.  I want something simple and smooth.  This coffee is wonderful!
,,,,,Delicious Colombian coffee!,"Wolfgang Puck's Colombian coffee is delicious!  I find it to be a smooth and flavorful dark roast with a lovely aroma, yet without a bitter or acidic quality that might leave an unpleasant aftertaste.  It is a bit expensive, like all k-cups, but I think it's worth it due to convenience and exceptional flavor.  I definitely recommend this coffee to others!"
,,,,,This is very good!,Not much of a coffee drinker but this Wolfgang Vienna brand is good. Not strong but a mellow taste.  The flavored coffees are getting on my nerves and this is just a good everyday coffee flavor. Everyone in the family and visitors like it. Would buy again.
,,,,,A great cup of coffee,I truly enjoy a good cup of coffee. It does give me a lift in the morning. Wolfgang Puck really knows how to produce a fine cup. Thanks.
,,,,,thanks!!!,"great service and delivery for a really good product. i am constantly looking for a good hazelnut coffee and so far this is the best, along with green mountain..."
,,,,,Best coffee,"My family is full of coffee snobs.  If you like robust coffee and use k-cups, this is the product for you."
,,,,,YUM!,"While I love flavored coffees, I had never tried any of the Wolfgang Puck line.  This moved to the top of my favorites list with the first cup!  Not only is the aroma delightful, the flavor is excellent as well.  I drink my coffee black and this one has no bitter after taste and the flavor isn't overpowering.  The flavor is a very light coconut and the coffee is a medium body.  I must admit that I was a little hesitant about a ""coconut"" flavor.  DON'T BE!  Everyone around me wants a cup....I refuse to share!"
,,,,,"Bold, but Not Teeth Jarring Bold. Nice Flavor and a Nice Cup of Coffee.","Wolfgang Puck French Roast is a nice, bold (not too bold), flavorful cup of coffee.  If you like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHFSQ6"">Coffee People Extra Bold Organic, Dark Roast Coffee for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>, then you should like Wolfgang Puck's French Roast.<br /><br />This French Roast has a deep flavor with a hint of sweetness and a smooth finish - a good choice for a morning cup of coffee.<br /><br />Recommended.<br /><br />(Note to Manufacturer: as a consumer, I wish you would use real coffee descriptions(i.e., hints of xxx, smooth finish) rather than fluff advertising like ""Bring the aromas of France home with you and ""Profitez des bons moments"" (enjoy the good moments)!"" - what does that really mean? It took me awhile to decide to purchase this coffee because the description gave me zero idea of what to expect)."
,,,,,Solid Medium Roast Coffee with Just a Hint of Bold. Good Flavor. Not Acidic.,"Good choice for your morning coffee if you like a medium, slightly bold flavor.  Vienna coffee is not a real bold coffee, so medium roast coffee drinkers should like the flavor.<br /><br />Vienna Coffee House has less of a kick than <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXFL1Q"">Wolfgang Puck French Roast (Dark Roast), 24-Count K-cups (Pack of 2)</a>), but a little more than <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHFUDC"">Coffee People Donut Shop Medium Roast, Extra Bold for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>.<br /><br />Good flavor, slightly sweet with a good bean taste that isn't tough on your stomach.<br /><br />To the manufacturer: please revise your coffee descriptions - they are terrible and give the consumer no information on the flavor/style of coffee featured.  If you want us to buy the coffee, be forthright on your descriptions."
,,,,,Another great dark K-cup coffee,"I love the rich, full-bodied flavor of a dark-roast coffee.  When I bought my first Keurig machine I wasted no time in ordering all of the dark roast K-cups that I could find.  I initially settled on Newman's Own Dark Roast as my ""go-to"" coffee, but I didn't stop there.  I like to keep experimenting and looking for something new.  I happened to find Coffee People's Organic Extra Bold blend and was blown away.  It has been my favorite ever since I first tried it.  Last week I saw a listing for a Colombian dark roast sold under the Wolfgang Puck name (it is processed and distributed by Van Houtte) and decided to give it try.  Here is my impression of it:<br /><br />After brewing a cup (I used the 7 1/2 oz. setting) the first thing that I noticed was that it didn't have that freshly-brewed aroma that the Coffee People X-Bold does, however the taste was another story.  It hits your palate with medium acidity and a nice, sharp bite that gets your attention right away. The finish was surprising clean with a hint of spice (nutmeg or cinnamon?) and just a slight, lingering, pleasant bitterness.  I really like this coffee but I think that I will stick with Coffee People's Extra Bold and this will be my back-up brand.  However, I will keep looking for something new.  Who knows what I will find?<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001EO7GYY"">Newman's Own&iquest; Organics Special Blend (Extra Bold), K-cups For Keurig Brewers, 24-count,  Boxes (Pack of 2)</a><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002L444OQ"">Coffee People Organic, Extra Bold K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 50) [Amazon Frustration-Free Packaging</a>]"
,,,,,"Not Outstanding. Light to Medium Roast. Smooth, Not Acidic.","I love the names Wolfgang Puck gives to their coffees, but the coffee descriptions leave a lot to be desired.<br /><br />In this case, with ""Breakfast in Bed"", I expected a much more flavorful cup of coffee than delivered.  ""Breakfast in Bed"" is on the light side of the medium roasts and has a mild, but not very memorable flavor.  On the plus side, it is a smooth coffee and not acidic at all.<br /><br />A better choice, in my opinion, is <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHFUDC"">Coffee People Donut Shop Medium Roast, Extra Bold for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>, which also comes in the 50 pack.<br /><br />ADDED: Another nice, smooth medium blend is <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002APWQ0K"">Timothy's World Coffee, Kona Blend for Keurig Brewers, Medium, 50-Count K-Cups</a><br /><br />ADDED: for those who prefer a lighter smooth blend, try <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00196QVPM"">Keurig Green Mountain Coffee Roasters 80 K - Cup Colombian Fair Trade Slect Medium Roast Coffee</a> (link for product description only, not for best pricing)."
,,,,,This coffee is now DECAFF!,"One reviewer mentioned that this coffee was decaff and said it was listed as such on the bottom of the box (in small print). I checked my current box and saw no such labeling information. HOWEVER, the new boxes I received are a different color, with a slapped on label for Hawaiian Hazelnut and NOW the bottom of the box says it's made from 100% decaff coffee. While I like the flavor, I do NOT want decaff in the morning, which is when I drink coffee.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I am unable to return this item to Amazon because of their return policy, which is why I'm writing this review, to make sure others know the coffee packaging has changed and it is definitely labeled as decaffeinated now. I would give more stars for flavor, but the lack of official notification in the product description that this coffee is decaff makes me feel as if I tossed my money out the window, buying something I would not have otherwise ordered."
,,,,,Great Cuppa...except,"Ok, now on our third box of Breakfast in Bed. We had become fans of Donut House and Coffee Shop, looking for that balanced smooth ""Dunkinesque"" brew. We found ourselves coming up just a bit short in the strength/flavor area. Corrections were made in brew size and eventually adding in a bit of Emeril's Bold or various dark roasts. Well problem solved with the B in B. Smooth and flavorful and a good eye-opener. (Was worried the name somehow implied less caffeine)Based on our experience in these areas, 5 stars. The ""except""? On three seperate occasions out of two boxes purchased seperately, we had ""exploding"" K-cups! A small pop during brewing that sent coffee grounds spewing over and in the Keurig, counter top, and coffee cup. This at our home brewer AND our vacation house. Messy. Very messy, requiring unplugging and careful cleaning inside cup holder and area. Minus 1 star. Umm, exactly who makes these things and where...hopefully a road bump on the way to sucess. Peace."
,,,,,our favorite,"I have this flavor shipped automatically now, along with several others.  This happens to be our favorite, and I have to remind my husband the two boxes need to last until the next shipment.  A slight coconut aroma and flavor is so amazingly delightful in the morning.  Not overly strong, and perfect for our taste buds.  Our favorite part of waking up in the morning!"
,,,,,"Outstanding, Bold, Lively Sumatran. best of the K-cups","First you must know I am one who roasts my own green beans at home, including Sumatran, but also many African varieties. I like a STRONG cup of coffee. I use K-cups at work because we have no facility for rinsing/cleaning/getting water for a regular machine.<br /><br />Sumatran coffees generally have a very rich, earthy taste; some would describe it as being ""tangy"" almost. Having tried the two other main brands of Sumatran for K-cups, the Puck is by far the best. It is not as bold as something you would get from Starbucks or from roasting yourself, but it has all the flavor elements of a good Sumatran cup. It especially has that nice earthy taste. Even the aftertaste is rich.<br /><br />IMPORTANT: If you are looking for a k-cup that you will use on any other than the smallest cup setting, this coffee is not for you. In my opinion you get a Sumatran because you love strong coffee. Watered down it loses its distinctiveness. Get a generic french roast if you want weaker coffee with some flavor. I make mine with 2 k-cups, at the smallest setting. By camparison, I would give a Starbucks Sumatra mandheling a 10/10 rating for boldness. The Puck is about an 8, the Diedrich is a 4.<br />I highly recommend this coffee for bold coffee lovers, provided you use the smallest cup setting. You will not be disappointed. Best K-cup I have had yet, and I have tried many- Newman, Timothy's, Donut Shop, Diedrich, etc.<br /><br />Addendum: I have since tried th Green Mountain Sumatran, and gave that a one -star. Stale and bitter. I will definitely stay with Puck's."
,,,,,"A very nice, smooth, Americano style coffee","I bought a Wolfgang Puck sampler and this was certainly one of my favorites, so I ordered a bigger box and have truly been enjoying it.  This is a classic, medium-roast cup of coffee.  It's very smooth, with no bitterness.  I would say that if you enjoy Donut Shop, Tully's Kona, and Caribou, you will like this blend.  The label is adorable and makes me smile when I pop it in the Keurig each morning."
,,,,,My favorite k cup,My favorite Flavored coffee!!! This is not available in any of my local stores.  Better price than I have found at any local stores as well.
,,,,,BEST COFFEE EVER,"BEEN TRYING EVERY COFFEE BRAND AND FLAVOR FOR OVER A YEAR NOW AND THIS IS IT.  I JUST LOVE THIS COFFEE.  YOU SHOULD TRY A SMALL BOX AND SEE IF YOU AGREE.  EVERYONE HAS A DIFFERENT TASTE FOR COFFEE SO YOU MAY NOT LIKE IT, BUT WORTH A TRY.  I ALWAYS SAY IF YOU DON'T BUY A LOTTO TICKET YOU WILL NEVER WIN."
,,,,,Coffee Makes Me a Crazy,"If you liked flavored coffees, this one has a hint of coconut to it.  This is my favorite coffee by far. I look forward to my first cup every morning."
,,,,,Awesome Coffee,I love this coffee. Great taste and great way to start your morning. If you like flavored coffee you will like this.
,,,,,My Favorite K-Cup so far!,"These K-Cups are great! The coffee is mild and yummy, but still very flavorful. I love this, cant wait to get my next shipment!"
,,,,,Not good at all!!!!!!!!!!!!!,This flavor is horrible.  There are many other flavors much better.  Hawaiian Hazelnut is great!  Breakfast in Bed is AWesome!
,,,,,Good Coffee - Great Price,"I caught this as a ""Warehouse"" deal. $18.09 for 48 K-cups. This was my first experience with any Wolfgang Puck coffee.<br />The Rodeo Drive Blend is good, average coffee. Nothing exceptional. I prefer a little stronger, bolder coffee, but at this price, it works for me. There's other brands that I like a little better, but with K-cups, cost per unit is always something I have to factor in...<br />I'd buy it again @ $0.38/cup, but I probably wouldn't @ full price. If you keep your eyes peeled, you can always find a good deal... just have to be patient and stock up when the deals arise."
,,,,,YUMMO!  I am a coffee purist,"This is great coffee.  I am a coffee purist.  I don't add cream or sugar (unless it is weak or bitter). I truly enjoy coffee.  I have tried many different types of coffee for K-cups.  This is my new favorite. The price was amazing too.  Very smooth and subtle hazelnut flavor, not overpowering."
,,,,,Great Coffee,"Well we were looking for another coffee that would meet or exceed the k cups we were using and this has far out tasted the coffee cups we were using, I have bought almost 6 packages of these and used just about all of them and will be ordering a few more boxes here soon. Great coffee, from a regular guy point of view."
,,,,,Great Coffee!,"Take it from someone who was tried a lot of different K-cups, BUY THESE! The ""Breakfast in Bed"" blend is full of great flavor, roasted perfectly, and more importantly I have been choosing it over Green Mountain, which says a lot. It's true to its name, perfect for the morning."
,,,,,Outstanding!,"Reading the previous comments people have stated they did not know this was a flavored coffee but it clearly states that it is. Atleast it did on the sight I bought mine from. I was only brought to Amazon for the secure payment feature. It's a delightful flavored coffee, (depending on how you brew it), and is a pleasant wake up any morning."
,,,,,coconut in the morning?,"I did not know this had a coconut flavor or aroma as I got it in a variety pack. I put it in this am and immediately smelled coconut and thought oh no I don't like sweet in the AM. But its not sweet, I am quite surprised at the flavor and how I like it. Would I like it every morning..NO but it was a nice change. Made me feel I was waking up in a Jamacian cottage on the ocean hearing carribean music, well maybe not but it was close"
,,,,,Sorry Wolfgang!,"I love my Keurig coffee maker. And I enjoy experimenting with new coffee flavours. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXHGDM"">Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Creme Caramel, 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a> seemed to be a safe choice. I love coffee with cream. I love caramel. I even like Wolfgang Puck. But his Creme Caramel flavoured coffee is a disappointment. It's not awful. It just lacks a certain depth of flavour. Even using the 'small cup' setting, the aroma is very nice, but the taste is a bit watery. 'Black', the coffee has a slightly chemical aftertaste. Adding extra cream and sweetener masked the aftertaste, but it didn't add any of the caramel creaminess I was expecting. In short; the coffee taste is very mild, and the caramel taste isn't all that great. Sorry Wolfgang, but I'm afraid this one is a yawner."
,,,,,Just okay,"I like dark strong coffee but I just didn't really care for this one.  Not sure what it really was, almost a tad bitter?  Unfortunately I have another whole box of 24 to use up.  I picked up some Sumatran Reserve (also a dark) and prefer it."
,,,,,Perfect every day coffee.,"I have tried many different k-cups and this has remained my favorite for the longest time. It is the perfect balance, not too weak and not too bold. And since I usually drink my coffee black, the flavor alone is very important to me. It' has a great flavor and not too acidic."
,,,,,"Too much caramel cream, not enough coffee","If you like your flavored coffee to taste like coffee, this may not be for you.  I couldn't taste the coffee at all in the travel size brew, but the smaller brew sizes were a bit better."
,,,,,"Great Coffee, Great Price","Amazon had this as buy one get one free and since it was my favorite, I could not resist.  Great purchase."
,,,,,great taste,"this product is great tasting and you don't even need sugar or creamer, but if you like sweet coffee i'd say a little sugar and creamer would not hurt, this is a perfect product to wake up to every morning :)"
,,,,,Ahhhh...,This coffee is so smoothe.  I brew my morning cup with the medium cup size and it is delicious. It is a little weak on the large cup size setting.
,,,,,Pretty good coffee,"This is a smooth not bitter coffee. It's a little more pricey than some which are just as good, but it has a good sweet flavor, and I can recommend it."
,,,,,Tastes great,I bought a small 3 pack of this locally and liked it so much I bought the 48 pack.  Great deal on Amazon.
,,,,,Crazy indeed,Bought a sample pack today of the Jamaica Me Crazy and love the flavor.  The flavor is not too powerful nor was it  overwhelming.  I'd recommend the Wolf Gang Puck k-cups.
,,,,,Great Taste and Reasonably Priced,"I personally don't like strong coffee.  If you like weaker coffee, then this blend is a great choice for you.  Other reviews on here say that its too weak, which is probably true if your used to something strong.<br /><br />I also use flavored creamer to further enhance the taste. For the price, it can't hurt to give it a try."
,,,,,Yum Yum,"This is the smoothest and best tasting Keurig coffee I've tried.  It's not bitter, not too weak, not too strong, just right!"
,,,,,Can Wolfgang make a bad k-cup?,"These are awesome...as are all of Wolfgang Puck's k-cups. The coffee is smooth, the cups brew perfectly, the taste is unbelievable! My husband and I are hooked on these. The price is great considering what amazing coffee this is!!"
,,,,,WOLGANG PUCK FRENCH ROAST,WOLFGANG PUCK'S FRENCH ROAST HAS A DEEP ROBUST FLAVOR. I PREFER IT IN THE AFTERNOON... SOMETIMES WITH A SHOT OF GRAN MARNIER... OH YEAH...
,,,,,Nice French roast,"I've tried every single French roast K-cup, and this is one of my favorites.  The Starbucks and the Barista Prima are the two best French roast K-cups, but the gap between Wolfgang Puck's and those two are negligible.  This one has that great sweet smoky flavor that every good French roast should have."
,,,,,Wolfgang's Hazlenut,"This one is my wife's favorite of all the Hazlenut blends she has tried. This is her ""go to"" after a busy day of being retired.<br />Delivery was exceptional as usual, could not ask for much more."
,,,,,I wouldn't call it bold,"I got this coffee as part of a ""bold"" sampler pack.  While I found it flavorful I wouldn't call it bold.  My first WP k-cup was French Roast which I found extremely bitter.  This coffee doesn't have that problem.<br /><br />For reference purposes my in store drink is a Starbucks Americano.<br /><br />My favorite k-cups are:<br />Starbucks French Roast<br />Starbucks Caffe Verona<br />Starbucks Pike Place Roast<br />Green Mountain Xtra Bold Sumatran Reserve<br />Green Mountain Double Black Diamond<br />Green Mountain Revv<br />Green Mountain Dark Magic<br /><br />Other k-cups I've tried:  Coffee People Jet Fuel ,Green Mountain Dark Magic Decaf, Emeril Jazzed up Decaf, Starbucks Caffe Verona, Coffee People Black Tiger,  Starbucks House Blend, Starbucks Breakfast Blend, Starbucks Sumatra, Wolfgang Puck French Roast, Green Mountain Lake and Lodge, Green Mountain French Roast, Caribou Mahogony, Wolfgang Puck Sumatra Kopi Raya, Emeril Big Easy Bold"
,,,,,Wonderful tasting coffee,"My husband used to like the Nantucket Blend saying that it was awesome.  Then he tried this one, and it's the only one he drinks.  I drink other flavors, but I like taking sips of this one for sure...my husband is very territorial over these cups and says it's the only one he drinks.  If you're a coffee drinker, definitely try this one!"
,,,,,LOVE this!,"I drink my coffee black,so quality is a must! This is an excellent medium roast with a smooth consistency and perfect amount of kick. I love all the Wolfgan Puck coffee k-cups, but this is absolutely my favorite!"
,,,,,One of my top favorites.,"One of my top favorites, it's infused with coconut and has a very unique flavor.  This coffee is best enjoyed without cream or sugar, and it will ether become one of your favorites or you'll never buy it again. Some of my other favorites are Vanilla Biscotti, Butter Toffee, Hawaiian Hazelnut, and Donut Shop."
,,,,,Good tasting Coffee,I drink a lot of coffee and I buy several different types. I found this particular one to be pleasant tasting with a nice aroma while brewing. There is no after-taste so you always want another cup.
,,,,,Great Coffee !,"Wonderful tasty coffee with a nice aroma as it is brewing. There is no after-taste at all and it very satisfying, you always want another cup of coffee. I continue to buy it."
,,,,,Nice flavorful and full-bodied.,A very nice flavor with no after-taste. It gives off a nice fragrance while brewing and has a very satisfying taste. You have to have another cup!
,,,,,Good Columbian,"Dark and full flavored, but distinctly Columbian.  This is a great morning coffee. Better cup of AM Joe than you will get at a coffee place."
,,,,,Breakfast in Bed review,"There is so many different K- Cup to chose from. So I asked in the store what brand and flavor is bought the most. They suggested Wolfgang Puck Coffee - Breakfast in Bed. The only had a few on the shelf and I was not disappointed. Now I am hooked. For you people that use creamer, this coffee is so good you will not even need creamer."
,,,,,Wolfgang knows how to brew it!,"My favorite of the Wolfgang series discovered when trying all of the flavors in the available sample pack. Very good flavor, consistent with each pod and not overdone with added flavors. Very good dark roast Colombian cup of coffee from the Wolf."
,,,,,The best Hazelnut out there!,We have tried all of the Hazelnut flavored coffee brands.  This is by far the best.  To bad it isn't an auto ship.
,,,,,Great blend of flavor.,"There's not much I can say that hasn't already been said. But when I brewed this coffee I really wasn't expecting to like it at all, seeing as I don't normally like coconut flavored things. But I really like the blend of flavors. To me it doesn't really taste like coconut as much as it does just tropical-ness in general. It's like.. palm tree flavored coffee. And the flavor isn't too overpowering at all, it still has a nice coffee taste. It's just right."
,,,,,"Only a 'HINT"" of vanilla","This is a dark, smooth brew (darker than Timothy's French Vanilla), But as with Timothy's it has only a slight hint of vanilla. This is my third ""taste test"" searching for the best vanilla flavored coffee.  Gloria Jean's was undrinkable.  Timothy's was pleasant but not as deep a roast as this. If it only had more vanilla flavor this would be my hands down favorite."
,,,,,Great flavor,"I've tried lots of flavors of coffee and this one is my favorite! Great taste, not bitter at all. A great flavored coffee for people who don't really like the taste of coffee."
,,,,,great coffee,"the aroma is awesome!!  love the flavor, really gets you going in the morning.  prompt delivery, this is definatly my husbands favorite single cup coffee"
,,,,,The Best,"After 5 years with the Keurig, this is the best .  If you like a medium blend, it perfect.  Its smooth, and has taste. Not watered down on either setting."
,,,,,Yum!!,"I am not a huge morning coffee person as this seems to be the only time of day black coffee upsets my stomach. No idea why. My work got a Keurig recently and buy the Caribou regular and morning blends, which are ok but I can hardly drink them unless there's a creamer of some sort in them.<br /><br />So on a recent trip to BB&B I perused their wall of K-cups and this one caught my eye. I am generally a fan of flavored coffees and this sounded good, so I bought an 18 cup pack. I have to say it is delicious! The coconut flavor is light but definitely there, and doesn't leave a bitter aftertaste like most black coffees do. It smells so good my co-workers have done a 180 walking by my desk to ask me what smells so good.<br /><br />Obviously if you're a coffee connoisseur this won't be for you, but if not it is definitely worth a shot. And the best part for me, aside from the flavor, no stomach upset!"
,,,,,I would order again!,Wolfgang Puck makes the BEST coffee! The package arrived on time and in perfect condition! I would definitely order this again.
,,,,,Makes you feel like you are having breakfast in bed.,Have enjoyed every single cup of Breakfast in Bed. Just the right kind of brew to wake up these old bones and get me started on the day's adventure. Also enjoy it while watching NCIS so I can join Gibbs enjoying a brew as well.
,,,,,My favorite hazelnut k-cup!,"I love this brand!  The best hazelnut flavor ever! I wait for it to go on sale because it is more expensive than the other brands.  Also, as another reviewer noted, it does say decaff on the bottom of the package! It really should state that in the product description. I've noticed the packages from Bed, Bath and Beyond did not state this but can't imagine both are available.  I'll still purchase it because the flavor is so smooth."
,,,,,An EXCELLENT hazelnut choice for your Keurig brewer...,"I've long been a fan of flavored coffees so when we got our Keurig brewer we jumped on the opportunity to sample as many different flavors of k cups as possible.  Our first foray into the single-serve hazelnut world was <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0029XDZKI"">Gloria Jean's Coffees,Hazelnut K-Cup Portion Pack for Keurig K-Cup Brewers (Pack of 50)</a>, which was absolutely awful.  We've always enjoyed hazelnut coffee in the past, though, and vowed not to give up.  I ordered a sample pack of Wolfgang Puck's hazelnut directly from Keurig's website and hoped for the best.<br /><br />Thankfully, Hawaiian Hazelnut blows all of the other hazelnut k cups out of the water.  It is smokey and delicious without being dark and overwhelming.  The hazelnut really does taste like actual hazelnut, which you'd think would be something a coffee drinker could take for granted, but we've been disappointed in the past.  I'd never tried coffee from the Wolfgang Puck brand before, but our positive experience with Hawaiian Hazelnut has definitely gotten me interested in trying other varieties.<br /><br />The hazelnut flavor is pretty bold and full bodied, which is nice, but there is no bitterness or acidity to be found.  This suits me just fine since I enjoy a milder roast, but people who enjoy their coffee strong and dark might not enjoy this blend as much.<br /><br />We'll definitely be repurchasing this coffee when we run out."
,,,,,Where's the caramel creme?,"If you like to taste the ""flavor"" in your flavored coffee, skip this one. I've struggled to taste the creme caramel flavoring that is supposed to be in here. The coffee flavor is also slightly bitter, but that could just be my taste buds longing for some flavoring! I'd recommend Green Mountain, Gloria Jeans or Van Houtte brands before this one."
,,,,,Best darn coffee :),I love this coffee - it's one of my all time favorites - it has the best flavor and I like the light roast.<br /><br />EXCELLENT!!!!
,,,,,Good morning coffee,"I love my Keurig but haven't found my ""perfect"" cup of coffee yet, although this comes close. I prefer a medium brew, not bold or strong. Breakfast in Bed is my choice so far."
,,,,,Tasty but defective cups.,"I love Sumatra coffee and was excited to receive these K-Cups however was disappointed when I opened my Amazon box and found that the plastic wrap holding the two boxes of K-Cups was full of grinds meaning that there was a possible blowout of a cup... after carefully unwrapping the boxes and attempting to get as little coffee grinds everywhere as possible I opened the first box and all cups were fine, however the second box every kcup was covered in fine grinds and I had to clean each one and found that 3 of the cups were defective due to the top being stamped on at an angle and the grinds had spilled everywhere. I now see other reviews stating they had defective cups as well. However the taste of the coffee is good."
,,,,,Sweet Coconut Flavor with A Mild Aftertaste.  Mild to Medium Blend.,"Jamaica Me Crazy is a sweet, coconut flavored coffee that has a mild aftertaste.  It is not a bold blend, but rather a mild to medium blend that leans more mild.<br /><br />This is certainly not a first cup of morning coffee for die-hard coffee drinkers who lean towards the medium to bold blends.  I would consider it a second cup of morning coffee, afternoon pick me up coffee or a dessert coffee.<br /><br />Flavor is OK.  I would like it better if the aftertaste didn't linger.  For a flavored coffee, it isn't bad & if you are a coconut fan, it is a blend to try on for size."
,,,,,It's Wolf!,Truly not much needs to be said because it's Wolf and to wake up to his coffee here at the house is fantastic!
,,,,,"Good, not Great","I expected more flavor from W. Puck. Though this coffee does taste good, it didn't have caramel flavor as expected. This is my opinion. Someone else may feel differently. The price is okay, I would not discount this product at all. It's a good product. Try it, you may like it."
,,,,,Best Vanilla  K-Cup Coffee Ever!,I've tried all Vanilla coffee K-cups and by far this is the best! Wolf Gang Puck Vanilla Francaise is a smooth vanilla experience that lasts way after the coffee is consumed.  Try it you'll love it!
,,,,,Delicious!!,"I am not a huge coconut fan, so I wasn't excited about trying this, but with one sip it definitely won me over!  The flavor is perfect and is now one of the flavors in our regular rotation.  And it smells so good!!!"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed,This is my daughter's favorite K-cup product. Mild medium roast it is the next best thing to having Wolfgang cooking breakfast for you in your kitchen.
,,,,,This is the best,"WOW! That's what my husband said when he tasted Wolfgang Puck's 'Jamaica Me Crazy' coffee for my Keurig.  He is not a fan of 'Strong' coffees and he really liked this one - We both do.  I highly recommend this one.  Can you put it on the Subscribe and Save??<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXL0V6"">Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Jamaica Me Crazy, 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>"
,,,,,My personal favorite K-Kup.,"I'm sure this flavor isn't for everyone, but if you enjoy your coffee on the sweeter and more flavorful side then you should enjoy this. It is not what I would call a ""strong"" coffee by any means. I would describe it as mild and flavorful."
,,,,,Delicious!!,"I just recently got a Keurig coffee maker & registered it online.  Keurig sent me a coupon for buy 2 boxes, get 2 free.  Awhile back, a local bagel shop had a coconut coffee that I fell in love with.  So, I decided to try this coffee out because it has coconut in it.  I brewed my first cup this morning & it smelled VERY strong of coconut so of COURSE I couldn't wait to try it.  After it cooled down a bit I took my first sip.  AMAZING!!  It is quite delightful & I STRONGLY recommend it if you like coconut coffee.  No bitter aftertaste, either & no soot @ the bottom of my cup.  Awesome"
,,,,,good coffee,"I was really impressed with this coffee, it has a nice bold taste, yet a smooth<br /> finish. I would order this coffee again."
,,,,,So close to Island Coconut K Cups,"When I coulnd't find Island Coconut K cups anywhere, I found this and decided to try it.  Although it is not exact, it is so close it puts a smile on face.  The coconut is not over powering, but you can taste the HINT of it certainly.  I love this and would order again and again...because THIS is available and Island coconut is not!!"
,,,,,Favorite!,This is my absolute favorite coffee flavor out there!  I'm so glad it comes in K-Cups!  And I'm glad it is so inexpensive!
,,,,,"Wolfgan Puck Coffee,Breakfast in Bed K-cups",I find this particular brand as good as the local coffee shop coffee (D.D.) which is a compliment to the maker. I have made this particular brand my #1 choice.
,,,,,One of the Best Mild K-cups Made,I have at least 4 dozen different k-cups at my house right now because we love to experiment with different flavors.  My favorite is Timothy's Rainforest Espresso because I like a bold coffee.  But others that prefer something milder say that Breakfast in Bed is their favorite.  I like it to but only when made as a stronger brew.  I have purchased maybe 15 boxes of this since it came out.
,,,,,This coffee is very good.,"I normally drink only Donut Shop, but when I saw this on sale I thought I would give it a try.  I was quite impressed with it and really enjoy this one.  I have now added it to my list of favorite K-cups to buy."
,,,,,Disappointed,"Vanilla flavor is barely noticeable.  Acidic taste, not at all what I expected.  Breakfast in Bed and Hawaiian Hazelnut are much better choices."
,,,,,Love it!,I really like the flavor of this one! It has a low acidity but still full of flavor! Now I have to have it every morning and I am having trouble finding another one I like this much.
,,,,,Superb coffee,"I'm actually suprised from reading some of the rants about this coffee.  I have tried 20+ K-cup varieties and this is by far my favorite.  Contrary to some reviews, I don't find it to be weak at all and in fact, is quite bold but with absolutely not hints of being bitter.  Very smooth and leaves a great aftertaste.  I prefer really strong coffee and this is a good compromise for a medium roast as it's not as bold as I would normally prefer but certainly strong enough to satisfy my preferences.<br /><br />I typically drink Wolfgang's Jamaica Me Crazy but ever since trying Rodeo Drive, I haven't gone back."
,,,,,A bit disappointed,"I Recently bought a 3 pack of this coffee at Bed Bath and Beyond. As its brewing, it smells great (if you like coconut).  The taste isn't bad, but for me, it has that artificial after taste that many flavored coffees have. I gave it 3 stars because it's not terrible. But I wouldn't buy this coffee again. If you're sensitive to after taste, I wouldn't recommend. I'd Grab a dark roast and throw some fresh coconut in there instead if you want a coconut coffee."
,,,,,Surprisingly delicious,I am usually not a fan of flavored coffe or coconut for that matter and when I bought the sampler pack of Jamaica Me Crazy I honestly did not see that it was a flavored coffee.  The aroma that it gives off while brewing transports me to a tropical island somewhere.  The flavor of the coffee is very subtle and leaves no after taste at all.  A great new addition to my coffee line up.
,,,,,Best Coffee ever,"This is the best tasting coffee available on k-cups!!!! The flavor is amazing, it is more expensive than other brands, but for a reason. Definitely worth trying."
,,,,,Excellent Good Tasting Coffee,This is one of the best coffees I have ever had for my Keurig.  It is a nice smooth coffee.  And the price is the best price I could find.  I will be buying more.
,,,,,Awesome Flavor,My husband and I are obsessed with this coffee...we take Kcups and hide them around the house because we wanna make sure it lasts a long time! Such a bold and delicious flavor!
,,,,,great coffee!!,"I had tried this coffee before, it is wonderful.  Smooth and rich, full flavored, but not too bold. I would recommend it to anyone."
,,,,,Good but not a premium coffee,"I tried this coffee, even though it was significantly more expensive than the Green Mountain (organic, free trade) Sumatra that I have been using for some time. Wolfgang Puck has the name and the rep.<br /><br />If this were the only Sumatra dark roast on the market, I'd be really happy with it. This is good coffee.<br /><br />It is not outstanding coffee. Compared to Folgers, this product is awesome. Unfortunately for Mr. Puck, I am comparing it to Green Mountain Sumatra.<br /><br />The organic and free trade Sumatra from Green Mountain is better to my taste, and it is cheaper. Mornings are good."
,,,,,Good coffee bad packaging,"The coffee is good,however the k-cup is not packaged well,the coffee machine barely streams coffee,more of a fast drip.  The whole idea is it's fast,right?"
,,,,,LOVE IT!,"It was a bit of a risk to order this, I mean what are you going to do with 2 boxes of kcups that taste terrible? But this was delish, the flavor was really good, and it was still awesome after it had cooled down. It has a coconutty, vanilla flavor, very nice!!"
,,,,,Good flavor & strength,"I like the Jamaica Me Crazy better, but when it's out of stock, this is my second choice.<br /><br />It's got a nice flavor & strength, without being bitter."
,,,,,I really like this one!,"Taste is a personal thing, isn't it.  So I'll just tell you(as a gauge) my all time favorite K-cup is Timothy's Midnight Magic a ""california roast"" (which is dark). I'm partial to dark roasts and probably would not have even bothered with this Sorrento, but a friend had it, so I tried it, and lo and behold - I'm very glad I did. I find this blend even better than Puck's ""Kopei Ray"" which is his dark roast. There's a whole lot of good flavor here - the word ""luscious"" comes to mind. This one's not available every where and comes at a slight cost premium. I say it's worth it. These will be a regular for me. PS: A suggestion (which seems apparent); as with any k-cup, when you try a new blend, use the plain old 1 cup setting to check it out undiluted the first time."
,,,,,Love this creamy coffee,"This is my favorite KCup.  I'd describe it as medium-dark, creamy and rich.  And very consistent.  A lot of k-cups seem acidic to me, so i'm really glad i found this one. :]"
,,,,,Tasty,"Very delicious coffee, thankfully Amazon sells this flavor now.  I have been waiting for it since I tasted this last year.  I like the fact that you sell it in a 2 Pack rather than a single."
,,,,,"Not my favorite, but it came in second","My hair dresser's salon bought a Keurig Machine, so I have been able to sample a variety of K-Cups. K-cups are about 10 times more expensive than a regularly brewed cup of coffee so I have never considered buying one for myself, but having a Keurig Machine at a hair salon makes sense! People have a variety of tastes and K-Cups can provide a nice variety and freshly made one at that.<br /><br />The salon has a nice variety of K-cups: Folders, Wolfgang Puck, Timothy's, and Green Mountain (that owns Keurig).<br /><br />Everyone's taste vary, but here is my assessment of the ones that I have tried so far. Wolfgang Puck was my second favorite. So far, I like Folgers the best.<br /><br />FOLGERS GOURMET<br />SELECTIONS LIVELY COLOMBIAN<br />Price per cup: 69 cents (package of 36 for $25)<br />Earthy flavor, fruity and nutty flavors come through.<br /><br />WOLFGANG PUCK CHEFS RESERVE COLOMBIAN DARK ROAST<br />Price per cup: 69 cents (package of 48 for $32.98)<br />A dark roast with caramel and earthy notes, slight burnt<br />and papery flavors.<br /><br />TIMOTHY'S DECAFFEINATED COLOMBIAN MEDIUM<br />Price per cup: 60 cents (package of 50 for $30)<br />A bit on the weak side, kind of papery, and less astringent than the others.<br /><br />Ali Julia review"
,,,,,Delicious,"Delicious coffee, good medium blend.  Its hard to find something that isnt too weak or too bold with K-cups, but this flavor was perfect.  Will buy again."
,,,,,Good coffee,"Good flavor.  Coconut flavor is subtle and not overpowering.  In comparison, there is another coconut coffee by Green Mountain in which the coconut flavor is overdone in my opinion."
,,,,,...,"While good quality, it was not at all what I expected. It smelled like caramel and vanilla, but it tasted like straight black coffee. I was pretty disappointed."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Dark Roast,"The coffee is just OK, a little weak. The price is a little high and it is not worth the extra money."
,,,,,Very weak,I was surprised to find out how weak this coffee is.  It has a good flavor but even on half cup it is very weak.
,,,,,My favorite hazelnut coffee,"To me, this has a good, balanced flavor.  Some flavored K-cups seem too light on hazelnut, or too light on coffee.  This one is just right."
,,,,,"Smells good, tastes good!",This k-cup actually smelled up the office. And it tastes as good as it smells. I found it to be very flavorful.
,,,,,Jamica Me Crazy.....So Good!,"I was surprised to find out the coffee from my sampler had coconut in it.  I bought a sampler of k-cups to try different flavors and would sit aside the ones that I liked to order in the future.<br /><br />After drinking Jamaica Me Crazy not realizing the ingredients just knowing I liked it.  When ordering, reading through the reviews realized it had coconut in it and that was what made the taste so yummy, leaving me wanting more.  I was hesitant to buy but decided to go for it and am really glad I did.  Everyone I have shared my coffee surprise with loves it too."
,,,,,My favorite K-Cup yet!,"Light and flavorful definitely describes this K-Cup. I often find it hard to find flavored K-Cups that aren't either 1) so strong you lose the flavor or 2) so light you'd be better off drinking water. However, I have to admit I have found a new favorite in the Hawaiian Hazelnut!"
,,,,,First but not last time to buy this one!!,"I LOVED THIS COFFEE. I just got my order a few days ago and I normally drink just one cup of coffee in the morning......Now I can't wait and have had an afternoon cup, too. I must say....I look forward to getting up in the morning just because I know I'm having this coffee!! TAHT SAYS A LOT FOR A LTE SLEEPER!! Try this one!! I like it on thenext to highest setting on my Keurig....it has an awesome aroma while brewing and the taste is smooth, never bitter and there is something that 'hints' of a slight fruitiness with the first sips......then the end of the sip is just a perfect brew, too. Never any aftertaste or bitterness. I am so happy to have found this!! Thanks Wolfgang! I have now ALL of your kitchen gadgets cookware and now the coffee too!"
,,,,,Yum-o,Best K cup around. A must try!  Amazon ships quickly and in one piece. I'd recommend the coffee as well as going through Amazon to order this coffee from.  Thank you for a great experience.
,,,,,On sale,Usually do not get the breakfast blends but it was on sale and decided at price would try it out. It was not as weak as some breakfast blends tend to be. Not bad.
,,,,,Best Coffee,Wolfgang Puck definitely has the best coffee for the money.  I absolutely love the French Vanilla.  The KCup actually makes a good full cup of coffee.  it could be a tad stronger but overall it is really good.  I still prefer the Senseo Pods to the KCups though.
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy is our favorite K-Cup so far,"Jamaica Me Crazy has a slight overtone of cinnamon that is a very nice compliment to the taste of coffee.  The flavoring is strong enough to taste, not just smell, without overpowering the flavor of the coffee.  Very good."
,,,,,"IMO, perfect.",I drink my coffee with a splash of half-and-half.  Other hazelnut k-cups are too bland for me.  I much prefer Wolfgang Puck's excellent rich roast with definite -- but not overpowering -- hazelnut flavor.
,,,,,"Excellent smooth, light coffee.  Good anytime.","Definately not what I'd expected with the Wolfgang Puck name on it.  To me, Wolfgang Puck has conotations of a heavy, dark-roast European-style coffee.  I thought I'd already found my perfect coffee in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001D0GV68"">Timothy's World Coffee, Breakfast Blend for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a> but this one edges it out.  Smooth and balanced it really is great from the first sip till the last drop.<br /><br />There will never be a coffee that all coffee lovers will agree on but if you like a light-medium roast, give the Breakfast in Bed blend a try.  Very low in acidity, someone who can't tolerate the acidity in coffee may be able to enjoy this blend.  But, be aware and contrary to popular belief, light roast coffee is typically higher in caffine than the dark roast coffees, the extended roasting to produce a dark roast burns away some of the caffine. This one will definately get you going in the morning in a good way.<br /><br />Those who prefer a dark roast or extra bold should probably look elsewhere."
,,,,,Good taste but secretly  DECAF,Taste is good but in my opinion coffee that has been decaffinated should be required to have such info clearly visible warning in big red letters before I mistakenly rely upon it to get me going in the morning.  Small print on the bottom of the box (I mean 6 point font) tells this.  Several mornings of splitting headaches could have been avoided . . . this caused me to check several other flavors online and none of them say anything one way or another about caffeine. I don't know how to avoid this for other products but this info should be clearly stated on every coffee for sale.
,,,,,1 down 47 to go,Too bad no one else had reviewed this before my purchase. It's not bold or dark enough to stand up to the Keurig's 3rd button and tasted a little tangy for my liking.
,,,,,Wolfgand Puck Rodeo Drive K-cup,"This coffee says medium roast but is actually a little stronger.  We loved it and it has become our favorite.  If you want some coffee to ""caffeine you up"", this is the one for you!!  Also, Wolfgang Puck's Breakfast in Bed is great...not so strong!"
,,,,,Delicious,"I can't remember when I've had a cup of coffee so delicious, I immediately wanted another cup.  There is no bitter taste, no funny chemical taste you get with so many flavored coffees, no odd aftertaste.  It's just a mellow, gorgeous, hazelnut-with-a-touch-of-the-islands cup of coffee.  Outstanding.  My favorite I've ever tried, and I've tried most!"
,,,,,Not as good,"This is very good coffee, but it doesn't have as much flavor as the Van Houttes creme caramel.  If your looking for something that has a lot of flavor, go with the other.  If you are looking for something that is more coffee than flavor, this is it."
,,,,,I would buy it again,"By far,this is the best flavored K cup coffee I've ever had. Good body, not bitter, no flowery aroma (like with the Green Mountain flavored K cups). I like my coffee a little stronger than Puck's Hawaiian Hazelnut, but it is certainly a fine, medium bodied,coffee I could drink over and over."
,,,,,Smooth & Delish,These K cups are wonderful! We were pleasantly surprised with the low acidity and smooth flavor! The Rodeo Drive K cups are on our top five K Cup list!
,,,,,"Mmm, mm, great coffee aroma!","While looking for a top rated vanilla K-cup, I stumbled upon this combination flavored cup that was rated higher than any of the vanilla flavored cups at that time.  I took a chance and ordered a double pack from Amazon and was pleasantly surprised. This is a rich tasting medium/light roasted flavor that appeals to several coffee drinkers at our house. There is a hint of built in sweetness so that additional sweeteners are not necessary for those of us who don't care for super sweet coffee. I would classify this as a medium roast and tastes best with the medium sized cup selections on our Keurig Coffee Brewer<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GTR2F6"">Keurig B-70 B70 Platinum Single-Cup Home Brewing System</a>. People who prefer extra bold coffees would need to use two of these K-cups to make one extra large travel mug of coffee.<br />  That said, we have found that mixing this flavor with other flavors to make an extra large serving is a most enjoyable pastime at our house. The most popular combo's so far are Jamaica me Crazy with <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00395DVQS"">Van Houtte French Vanilla K-Cups for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count Boxes (Pack of 2)</a>, Hazlenut<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00395574M"">Van Houtte Hazelnut Decaffeinated K-Cups for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count Boxes (Pack of 2)</a> or Costa Rican<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HKZZ4I"">Van Houtte Caf&eacute;, Costa Rica Tarrazu (Light Roast), 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>. In the end, This is one of the most versatile flavors for those of us who have frequent visitors and several palettes to please."
,,,,,"Yum!  Rich, strong, and not bitter.",Bought this during one of Amazon's Friday Sales.  Did not find too many reviews since these are fairly new.  Took a chance and am very pleased.  We like our coffee rich and strong and this one delivers.  Great tasting dark roast coffee!
,,,,,Yummy hazelnut,This coffee is surprisingly delicious. We never had a problem with the k-cups bursting; maybe it is a defect on the coffee brewer..? This coffee is a bit less strong than we normally prefer our coffee but it makes up with great taste. Look forward to my mug every morning. Would definitely recommend it and will buy it again.
,,,,,Coffee,"I personally did not care for the coffee, too mild for me and a little ""nutty"" flavor in it.  I will stick with Tully's Kona and House blends, also Emeril's Big Easy bold."
,,,,,great,Exact same as the ones bought at the store only a lot cheaper. Recommended for any Keurig drinkers out there.
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut,This is my #1 favorite coffee. Blending of hazelnut and coconut are perfect.  Thank you!!<br /><br />Question:  why was I charged postage on this brand when I have never paid on any other brand of K-Cups from Amazon
,,,,,Best flavor available!,If you like your Keurig you need to try this K-cup.  Smooth taste with just a slight hint of flavor.  Not overwhelming like some brands.  My new favorite.
,,,,,Favorite Of The Keurig Coffee K-cups,"This is our favorite k-cup coffee, it is strong - and taste great (although it seems that many of the k-cups) have nearly the same overall taste..."
,,,,,coffee lover,"More than a ""hint"" of coconut! Not very much vanilla. Being a vanilla fan and NOT a coconut fan - this is OK."
,,,,,Works for me.,"This is a good tasting K-cup from a guy who drinks coffee black and prefers a bold, full flavored taste. I would recommend."
,,,,,You don't have to look any further,"I love using K Cups!  Although I have tried so many ""bad"" coffees.  I have finally hit on one dark roast coffee that isn't bitter and has a wonderful flavor.  You don't have to try them all, this is a perfect blend coffee."
,,,,,"Should be titled ""best flavored coffee ever!""","Ok - so this is the best flavored coffee ever.  No after taste that seems to always occur w/flavored coffees & its not even really flavored, it has hint of coconut taste but it really still tastes like coffee just the best coffee ever... mmmmmm... add honey.. yummy!!!!!<br />Highly recommend!"
,,,,,my very fav k cup coffee!,Wolfgang puck k cups are under the radar - their coffees are smooth and delicious and Jamaica Me Crazy is my fav and the best coconut flavored coffee on the market. Island coconut is quite poor in comparison.
,,,,,Perfect blend,"I've always hated the Peete's or Starbucks burnt-bitter taste. This is a great blend, still strong without the burn roasting.<br /><br />FYI, low quality beans are burned to hide it's bad taste."
,,,,,Excellent Brew,"I like the darker roast coffees and this fits the bill.  This is every bit as good as Deidrich and Tulley's but typically costs more.  I guess Wolkgang wants a cut.  If you catch it on sale, buy it."
,,,,,Pretty Good,"This coffee is a lot like the Green Mountain Nantucket blend.  If you like that, you'll like this.  Generally, the GM product costs less, but this was on sale."
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy Coffee,"It was as good, if not better, than I was told!  Great taste!  I will puchase it again."
,,,,,"I don't enjoy this ""coffee""",Probably because it doesn't taste like coffee.  It is flavorless.  I saw the good reviews and thought I'd get a couple boxes and now I'm stuck with a bunch of k cups that I don't want to drink because I'd rather literally drink any other k cup I've ever tried.  As you can see I'm not a fan of these k cups.  These are the worst ever.
,,,,,If there were no other coffee in the house,"...I will drink this if all other coffee options are exhausted. The coffee has a vanilla/coconut smell but after a sip or two, I can't drink it. Would not purchase again and I'm having trouble even giving it away. I expected more from Wolfgang Puck."
,,,,,caramel,"I love caramel and was excited when this arrived. But I AM SO DISAPPOINTED. Hardly any flavor at all, of coffee or caramel"
,,,,,Unremarkable,"First, let me say that I prefer extra-bold K-Cup coffees and only occasionally drink a medium blend, and never decaf. I bought three Wolfgang Puck coffees several months ago: Rodeo Drive Blend; French Roast; and Sumatra Kopi Raya. All three are quite drinkable, though they do not measure up to a few of the extra-bold blends from Coffee People: Kona Blend; Organic Blend; Jet Fuel; and Black Tiger. Even better than these, though, is my new favorite, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003M7TTYG"">Green Mountain's Revv</a>. Those who prefer a strong, dark cup of coffee (even at the larger mug setting) should try that brand.<br /><br />Previously, I had found the dark-roast Green Mountain coffees rather boring, but Revv lives up to the hype, both in strength and flavor. Another great Green Mountain coffee is their Espresso Blend (though Amazon doesn't stock it, so the prices tend to be higher here than in brick-and-mortar stores such as Bed Bath and Beyond). Finally, a favorite regular over the years has been <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004M5W7YQ"">Emeril's Big Easy Bold</a>. It's a very nice coffee, though don't expect the New Orleans experience of chicory flavor.<br /><br />Bottom line: You won't go wrong with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but for my taste they do not stand out among the available bold coffees."
,,,,,Unremarkable,"First, let me say that I prefer extra-bold K-Cup coffees and only occasionally drink a medium blend, and never decaf. I bought three Wolfgang Puck coffees several months ago: Rodeo Drive Blend; French Roast; and Sumatra Kopi Raya. All three are quite drinkable, though they do not measure up to a few of the extra-bold blends from Coffee People: Kona Blend; Organic Blend; Jet Fuel; and Black Tiger. Even better than these, though, is my new favorite, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003M7TTYG"">Green Mountain's Revv</a>. Those who prefer a strong, dark cup of coffee (even at the larger mug setting) should try that brand.<br /><br />Previously, I had found the dark-roast Green Mountain coffees rather boring, but Revv lives up to the hype, both in strength and flavor. Another great Green Mountain coffee is their Espresso Blend (though Amazon doesn't stock it, so the prices tend to be higher here than in brick-and-mortar stores such as Bed Bath and Beyond). Finally, a favorite regular over the years has been <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004M5W7YQ"">Emeril's Big Easy Bold</a>. It's a very nice coffee, though don't expect the New Orleans experience of chicory flavor.<br /><br />Bottom line: You won't go wrong with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but for my taste they do not stand out among the available bold coffees."
,,,,,Excellent coffee,This is an excellent full-bodied coffee without a bitter taste. In general the Wolfgang Puck coffees are quite good although a little more expensive than some of the other K-Cups.
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy K-Cups,"As always, I LOVE this coffee, it's about the only kind I buy for myself.  The turn around time is terrific.  When I have about a week's worth of cups left, I order and have the next batch in perfect timing.  Very happy with everything about this product."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Keurig Cup Coffee,"This coffee is a smooth, yet robust taste that does not have any bad after<br />taste. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003VXJJ28"">Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Rodeo Drive Blend (Medium Roast), 24-Count K-Cups for Keurig Brewers (Pack of 2)</a>"
,,,,,Just Right Anytime of Day!,"I have tried many brands of medium roast coffees however, this is my favorite. Some I've tried are bitter; some are too light; some are too strong; but this one for me is just right! Some brands more than others come in all puffed up and when punctured, the grounds filter out into the needle of the Keurig coffee maker and has to be cleaned which isn't difficult, just annoying. Never had a problem with these.  Breakfast in Bed k-cups are smooth, not too light and not too strong, right smack in the midddle. No bitter after taste either and perfect any time of day. Enjoy!"
,,,,,"Great, smooth-tasting coffee!","Sometimes we have a problem ordering the k-cups because they are way too strong for us--even if you order medium blend.  This coffee was great--just right!  It was a smooth blend, and was perfect for a morning cup of coffee--or anytime!  Would definitely order again!"
,,,,,Either I got a bad batch or....,"...or the good reviewers' taste buds are weak.  This is some disappointingly<br />weak coffee.  I'm not some crazy ""gotta have my jet black sludge to get<br />through the day"" coffee drinker - I'd say my favorite (and my wife's) is<br />Caribou Blend.  This blend is WEAK, it can't hold half-and-half or even<br />just whole milk without being wiped out.  Now, I will say I brew it on<br />the ""large cup"" (9.25 oz, I believe) setting on our Keurig, so maybe it's<br />a bit better on the 8oz setting, or even the small setting.  But Caribou (we<br />also like Donut Shop, Green Mountain Kona Blend 10%, etc.) can be easily<br />brewed on 9.25 and hold a good bold taste.  This coffee doesn't<br />hold a CANDLE to any of those.  Now I'm stuck with 40+ of these. Blech...maybe<br />the guests won't mind it! :)"
,,,,,Great flavor,"Good description of this product. Has the over roasted popular coffee flavor, but, not overpowering. One of my favorites so far."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Sumatra,I ordered this by accident and I'm so happy I did. This is a new favorite of mine. It's nice and strong without being bitter.
,,,,,"Not Bad! Smooth, Not Bitter, Plenty Strong But Not Too Strong.","NOTE: This one is better for me at the smallest cup setting, which makes it stronger.<br /><br />This is my first time to try Wolfgang Puck coffee. I have mixed feelings about it so far. The Rodeo Drive Blend is a little more 'bland' than I'm used to, which is great for people who prefer that. It's just a different taste, which is good or not-so-good, depending on each person's preference. Personally, ever so often I take a sip of Rodeo Drive Blend and think that it almost tasted like dishwater. Then that goes away and I enjoy the rest of the cup of coffee. I think that reaction is because it isn't as strong and bold as I'm used to, but it's pretty good. I can see that some people might make this their favorite because it is different.<br /><br />Will I buy this again? No. It's good, but it's not my preference, and I might as well buy the ones that make me rave on and on about how good they are, usually Tully's French, Kona, Italian, and House. Those may be too strong for some people, and the Rodeo Drive Blend does have its own unique taste which may really appeal to some coffee drinkers. As with most things, actually a little more than in most things, with coffee, it's a matter of taste and probably a matter of what you are in the habit of drinking. You may want to try this one, especially if you can find it in a sample packet, or do like I do, keep the rest for guests to try."
,,,,,"Great coffee, problematic k-cups!","I really love this coffee, great tasting and bold.  However, on about 1/3rd of the pods, the foil separates from the cup and blows grounds into the brewer and my coffee cup.  I can usually predict which ones will do it because the foil on the k-cup is not puffy like it has pressure, but flat and wrinkled."
,,,,,Didn't say anywhere it was coconut favored!,"It's coconut flavored, either you'll like it or not.  I was actually surprised since I'm not a big fan of coconut, but I liked this coffee.  Not my favorite, but nice on occasion."
,,,,,bought this for a friend,"My friend says she loves this coffee and has never been able to find it in the local stores where we live.  Aha, she did not know that Amazon sells just about anything you could want - no tax and free shipping.  What could be better."
,,,,,yum,"hazelnut being the household favorite favorite, I thought I'd give these k-cups a try. The flavor is smooth and delightful. I suggest trying this brand for your k-cup machine!"
,,,,,Wish I were in Hawaii,"This is good, but could be a bit stronger in the Hazelnut flavor. It is good though and I would purchase it again."
,,,,,Poor quality Kcups,I love the taste but have found that many of the cups explode!!  The glue on the side of the cup becomes undone and then the cup explodes.  Very hard to clean up.  Do not think I will buy this brand again!
,,,,,Great coffee,"I love Jamaica Me Crazy coffee. This version is flavorful, the price is pretty good, and it sure beats the office pot coffee that sits on a burner for hours. Fresh coffee, fast!"
,,,,,A little too much bitterness & acid,"This is less of a ""bold"" flavor and more of an acidic and bitter coffee. My wife is easy to please and she's not a fan. I'll finish the box but I reach of others first."
,,,,,A Good Daily Roast,"This coffee has become one of my daily favorites.  It's not quite as strong as many of the french roasts, but it's also not as bitter.  A good way to start the day."
,,,,,One of the best for Puck k-cups.,"This is my favorite so far amongst the Wolfgang Puck K-Cups. The word that comes to mind when i sip it is ""Bright"". It has a natural sweetness and good flavor, without being overly heavy. The packaging lists it as a Medium Roast, but i'd put it more towards the light end of the spectrum. It's a very enjoyable cup, and i'd recommend if you are looking for something to switch up with Green Mountian's popular Vermont Country Blend or Breakfast Blend.<br /><br />I generally haven't been impressed with the Wolfgang Puck flavored varieties (Vanilla Francaie, Jamaica me Crazy), but this regular cup is quite good."
,,,,,One of my favorites!,"I have had all of the various Keurigs since they came on the market for home use. Thus,I have tried pretty near all of the various k-cups. This is one of my top 5 favorites. Love the coconut in it, and the wonderful coffee flavor. YUM!!!!"
,,,,,Very satisfied with my purchase as always with Amazon,This coffee was not what I expected but enjoyed it greatly.  I was looking for a stronger vanilla flavor but after trying it I enjoyed it a lot. It was light and smooth and left no aftertaste.  I would recommend this to others.
,,,,,A bolder Columbian,"I like Columbian coffee and this is above average with a good dark color with a nice smell.  The taste is bolder than average but not unpleasant or bitter.  This is my ""strong"" Columbian coffee combining all the good things of the type with a bolder taste."
,,,,,I liked it,smooth.  I normally drink dark roasts but purchased this on a lightning deal (or maybe a friday sale).  I like it.
,,,,,Just OK coffee.,"The coffee is just OK. It's very mild, almost bordering on weak. Would buy it again if the price was right."
,,,,,Great Coffee,I've tried every bold k-cup and this is one is one of my favorites.  Very nice flavor and strength.
,,,,,Jamaca me flavorful,"Bought this on the recommendation of my son.  Not a big fan of flavored coffee, but a cup a day of this lightly flavored coconut coffee puts me in the islands.  How can you go wrong with Wolfgang Puck?"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Sumatra,This coffee says Dark Roast & Extra Bold and.... IT ISN'T! It's weak and barely beats out a cup of Folgers.
,,,,,Above average K-cup coffee,"We have a Keurig coffee maker. One of the side benefits is the opportunity to experiment with different K-cups. I have already tried half a score. Some seem pretty tasty at first--until one taste something that is even better. Some early K-cups that I graded highly don't compare too well with later brands that I have tried.<br /><br />Wolfgang Puck's Columbian Dark Roast Noir is one of the better products that I have tried. It has a bold taste, although not strongly so. It is also smooth tasting.<br /><br />It is now on my short list of possibilities for my first morning cup of coffee. So, I am pretty happy with Wolfgang Puck's product here."
,,,,,Jamica Me Crazy,"This is my favorite coffee flavor and I have not had it in a long time.  Forgot how delicious it was until we ordered the k-cups.  Love them, already ordered more."
,,,,,"Nice rich flavor, good cup of coffee","We've only been using the k-cups about 2 months.  Both my wife and I like our coffee bold.  I've been guided by amazon reviews and started out with Coffee People's Jet Fuel.  Although that is still my favorite, I got this French Roast on a Friday sale and would say that it's my new second choice.  I have also tried Coffee People's Black Tiger (a close third) and Kona (not a fan).  This is a nice, well-rounded every-day cup, more on the bold side but not wincingly so."
,,,,,"Good flavor, but bad pod quality","The flavor of this coffee is good, it has a nice balance of Vanilla without being too strong.  It's not the boldest coffee, but it's a nice afternoon treat.<br /><br />That being said, I have had problems with several pods.  When you hold them up to the light, you can see that there are grounds outside of the filter portion of the pod.  This causes a cup full of grounds when you brew the coffee, and also clogs up the pin at the bottom of the pod chamber.  I'd say about 1 out of every 5 or 6 pods has this problem."
,,,,,Grounds for not ordering again,I love the taste of this coffee but in my last order of four boxes about every other K-cup has a tear or rip in the internal filter and thus the grounds flow through into the cup of coffee which wastes the value of the coffee as drinkable.  Wolfgang needs to correct this flaw in packaging.  I will not order again because of the waste.
,,,,,K CUP WOLFGANG PUCK,I bought this coffee for my Keurig coffee maker and I really like it. Smooth  and the best thing it is an organic. Wolfgang uses the the best beans for his coffee's. Buy you will be pleasantly surprised.
,,,,,"Wolfgang Puck Coffee, Vienna Coffee House","great tasting coffee. strong, but not obnoxiously strong and no nasty aftertaste. too bad, it cannot be purchased on subscribe and save anymore."
,,,,,wake up to deliciousness,This is the best all around 1st cup in the morning coffee ever!  I love it.  Perfect flavor.
,,,,,Breakfast...,By far the tastiest coffee I have purchased from Amazon.  Sorry it isn't in the Shop and Save any longer.  Delicious!!!
,,,,,Fave K-cup French Roast,"Love this blend, so was delighted to find it on your ""Subscribe & Save"" program (at a better price<br />than w/Keurig.  So REALLY disappointed to learn today it was no longer available on said program.<br />Shame on manufacturerer!"
,,,,,Very nice taste,"I have tried about 25 different K-Cup flavors, and this is my favorite.  It has a wonderful aroma, and just the right amount of Hazelnut.  Use the subscribe option, and this is a deal that can't be beat."
,,,,,Not as sweet as other French Vanilla coffees,"I admit, I like my French Vanilla coffee to be heavy on the vanilla side.  This isn't.  It's a much stronger coffee brew, meaning more sugar and creamer is needed to tone down the coffee flavor.  On the other hand, it's a reasonable alternative if my preferred brand (Van Houtte) isn't on sale or when it's occasionally out of stock.  I like that it comes in a 2-pack because our family goes through a lot of k-cups and I don't have to order quite so often."
,,,,,"Great Coffee, Great Price",I buy these with subscribe and save.  I like the flavor and aroma.  Going on month two and I am not tired of them yet!
,,,,,What I've Been Looking For,"I was very excited when I received a Keurig coffee maker as a Christmas present, & couldn't wait to put it to use.  However, in the three months since I've had it, I have struggled to find what I think is a good cup of coffee.  Most of the brands I've tried have either been too weak or too strong.<br /><br />I am not a ""Starbucks"" kind of coffee drinker, or fan of fancy flavored coffees.  I just like a regular cup of coffee that smells good when it's brewing, & tastes smooth when I drink it.  Finally, just like Goldilocks said, this one is ""just right""."
,,,,,Yum  but weak,One of the weaker flavored coffees but a yummy one.  Almost no need for milk as it is already creamy tasting.
,,,,,For true coffee lovers,"This coffee is awesome.  Kinda bold, with a sweetness.  Excellent my son says with International's Carmel Macchiado creamer you can find in the dairy section."
,,,,,great coffee,The coffee was great. Spent some time in Jamaica and got to love the coffee. Nice to get in back home as well.
,,,,,Very Good Coffee,"I got this with the purchase of 24 different bold coffee k-cups to find the ones I like best, and so far this is my favorite. It may not be bold enough for some, but it is not supposed to compete with the 'extra bold' varieties. This was smooth and not nearly as bitter as many bold coffees. So many bold blends have a 'burned' flavor, leaving a bad taste in your mouth, this one was strong without the bad aftertaste, perfect for me!"
,,,,,Good k-cup,I like full-bodied coffee and to try something different to supplement the standard one I use.  This coffee was perfect for that purpose. Timothy's Rainforest Expresso is still my standard one...but I will order this again.
,,,,,Rich and wonderful,"Creme Caramel is by far my newest favorite!  Great coffee flavor, not too weak, with a wonderful caramel aroma!"
,,,,,Great Coffee !,"I drink alot of coffee and love hazelnut coffee, this brand has the best flavor I have ever tasted. I have bought several different brands and this one is the BEST! It may be a few dollars more but it is worth it. I absolutely love and enjoy it every morning."
,,,,,Can't find the perfect Creme' Brl&eacute;e Coffee!,"10 years ago my daughter brought home Creme' Brulee' for the first time. It was perfect, beans to be ground.  Since then I have searched for ANYTHING similar. When I realized I couldn't find it, she had forgotten what one she purchased.<br /><br />This one has a strong flavor, but it tastes fake with a strong after taste. Unfortunately it is one of the better ones.  If anyone reads this and knows what ones (Carmel and Vanilla), taste great, please post here."
,,,,,"Yummy coffee, not a fan of coffee grinds though!!","I REALLY like the taste of this coffee! My only complaint is that the coffee grinds end up in my coffee. Not a huge fan of that and even though I really like the taste of it I will not order again, bummer!! =("
,,,,,My Favorite Coffee,"My favorite, I have it auto shipped through Amazon. The only problem I have is I drink way too much coffee now because I like it so much."
,,,,,One of my favorite K-cups,This is one of my favorite K-cups.  It's a rich dark coffee without the bitterness of some.  Highly recommended.
,,,,,OK,I thought the coffee tasted fine.  It was not strong enough for my husband.  Several of the pods burst during brewing.  I probably won't purchase this again.
,,,,,Scrumptious!,This is my favorite of the flavored coffees. I am not usually a fan of coconut but this coffee is deliciously coconutty-chocolaty! Love it!
,,,,,My New Favorite,"Yummy, mild, and delicious. My new favorite! Mild in comparision to coffees called ""rocket fuel"" and taste like motor oil, but truly a medium roast. Pleasant in the morning. Makes you glad to have a good cup of coffee."
,,,,,Great flavored coffee,Wolfgang Puck coffees are great and the Creme Caramel is one of my favorites. I would recommend this coffee for people who like a mild flavor.
,,,,,Decent coffee but I wasnt wowed!,I thought that because of the name attached that I would be wow-ed...its just a good average coffee nothing spectacular.
,,,,,Horrible: did something happen?,I bought this coffee because several people who also liked my favorite (Jet Fuel or Emeril's Big Intense Bold) liked this one. Typically Sumatra is one of my favorite coffees as well.<br /><br />I am wondering if they made a bad batch or gave it the wrong label.<br />It is **NOT** bold.  It is extremely mild and smoky tasting.  Not a single member of my family liked it and that's very unusual.<br /><br />I'm going to contact the company to see if they'll exchange it or refund me.  It is THAT bad.
,,,,,Misleading Flavor Name,"As coffee in general, this Wolfgang variety was alright. However, I was expecting a ""Creme Caramel"" taste, or something similar, and I don't feel this delivered. I tried multiple cups at different cup sizes and this coffee just didn't do it for me. It is marketed as a flavored coffee, yet I could not taste anything beyond the flavor of coffee."
,,,,,yummy,"I prefer mild to medium coffee and I've tried so many different k-cups but I'll stay with this one the other reviews were right on , smooth and not any bitterness. Just a great cup of joe. With amazon prime it came super fast, if you're not a prime member I strongly recommend it."
,,,,,Cups Can Be Defective,"This is a good French roast coffee, although it could be a little bolder. I've never before had a k cup dump the contents into my cup. It's extremely irritating to deal with grounds in the cup and machine when deliberately choosing a system that avoids the mess."
,,,,,love the dark rich flavor,I am having a blast with my new Keurig machine - trying out a bunch of new flavors including the Dark Roast. It's nice and flavorful - particularly since I run each of my cups through the small cup brewing cycle 2 times to fill my large mug.  This works.<br />Tried the chocolate donut flavor the other day and loved it.<br />Love the convenience and bargain prices of the subscribe & save.
,,,,,Very good cup of coffee,"I am impressed with Mr Puck's different blends, this one is a favorite of ours. It lives up to the ""medium roast"" name, full bodied, not acidic and smells great while brewing, will buy again."
,,,,,Great Deal!,Great Deal - GREAT turnaround!  What a difference from other orders I have placed with other vendors!  Got the package the day after I ordered it!
,,,,,Best Coffee Ever!,"If you like vanilla flavored coffee, this is it!! I put a french vanilla creamer in and no other sweetner is needed. I have it every day and I'll always order ahead so I don't run out."
,,,,,High Rating!,"This coffee is Bold and none of the bitterness that is usually found in bold coffee's.  It also scored exeptional in the single serve coffee ratings and I concur.  There is a lot of dreck out there in K-Cups, this and Wolfgang Puck's Hawaiian Hazelnut are great!"
,,,,,Not my favorite,"I got this is a low cost alternative to my normal Jet Fuel and it just didn't measure up. I like strong coffee but this had a bitter taste that I just didn't care for. Also, 3 of the cups had some sort of malfunction and dumped their grinds into my cup-not sure why."
,,,,,Very tasty.,Very smooth and flavorful for a medium roast.  I was pleasantly surprised by this k cup and would get it again. The 25% off deal drew me to it and I'm glad.
,,,,,Not much flavor to this coffee...,"This coffee is not a true medium roast like Caribou French Roast, Donut House, etc. there was not much coffee flavor at all. I found it to be so weak in flavor that not only did I have to go down a brew size, but I also have to add less milk just too drink it. I will never buy it again. Wish I didn't have 45 more cups to go thru!"
,,,,,Wolf Gang's Kcup Breakfast Blend a Sleeper,"I ordered Wolf Gang Puck's k cups, largely because of his reputation and my experiences at his restaurants, both of which are good. However, when I drank my first cup of the Breakfast Blend, I tasted no coffee...it was as if I was drinking hot water. I was very disappointed and will purchase only those k cups which I know to be good. Sorry Wolf Gang, this is a sleeper!"
,,,,,Great brew,"This is my favorite of all the coffees I've tried. Smooth and flavorful without being a flavored coffee, its a definite treat anytime of day."
,,,,,A bit of a disappointment.,"I was expecting a mellow caramel flavor, but this coffee is a bit sharp and you really can't make out any carmel flavor."
,,,,,Strong Dark Roast Coffee,"This is about the strongest K cup I've purchased.  I like my coffee strong, and before buying a K cup coffee maker, always purchased French roast whole bean and brewed strong coffee.  Brewing this in a K cup machine at an 8 ounce cup will definately provide you with a strong cup of coffee.  Since I brew a cup for my wife and I at the same time, I run two 8 ounce cups with one of these K cups into a small decanter, and then pour into two coffee cups, which still yields a strong flavor, but not enough pop your eyeballs out...<br /><br />Of course, brewing two cups with one K cup drops the price down in half, which at less than thirty cents a cup is on the cheap end of K cup brewing.  I find most K cups are good for up to a 12 ounce cup, and 16 ounces would weaken them too much...  But this works for my wife and I since I have been fixing a cup for each of us for years, and brewing two cups with one K cup is economical."
,,,,,So weak!,"I am only drinking it, so it won't be wasted, and I have to rotate it with a Coffee People product, so I remember why I like coffee.  It is really wan. The strongest flavor profile is tin.  I love creme caramel and am a huge WP fan, but the flavor strenth and consistancy of this coffee does not impress. Choose another - you won't be sorry you did."
,,,,,Too bitter and smoky,"My favorite coffees are the big dark roasts like French, Italian, and Full City.  This K-cup dark roast has a big, bold flavor, but lacks balance.  The level of smokiness, bitterness, and acid are way too high, and the result is not enjoyable.  I liked the dark roasts. for the Keurig from Green Mt, Newman, and Donut Shop much more than this one."
,,,,,Yummo!!,"I want this coffee in bed every morning, just like it's name ""Breakfast in Bed"".  I ordered this 24/2 box shipment on the automatic 2 months plan.  I used it up way before the next shipment so I changed the plan to every month.  Now is looks like it's out of stock.....ugh....I hope it comes back soon.  It is a delicious choice!"
,,,,,taste,"This product takes getting used to.  Only after using about 3 K-cups did I start liking it.  However, I wouldn't buy this many again."
,,,,,My new favorite kcup,I'm loving this coffee!! It's smooth and bold but not too bold. It reminds me of starbucks coffee but not as bitter. Very very very good cup of coffee. Give it a try. I'm really glad I did.
,,,,,Weak coffee - little flavor!,I love Wolfgang Puck products but the coffee is very disappointing.<br />There is a weak flavor - almost tastes diluted!<br />Some troll must have changed out all the real Puck products!<br />Libbie
,,,,,Defective,This is the 1st K-cup coffee that I am getting grounds in my coffee. It is occuring about every 3 cups. I have not had this problem with other K cup manufactures. I will not reorder.
,,,,,Better than Donut Shop!,"Until I tried Vienna Coffee House, Donut Shop was the one I had on automatic monthly delivery.  Vienna Coffee House is a tad bolder than Donut Shop but very smooth without any bitterness.  From the first cup, I knew I had to switch."
,,,,,Favorite K-Cup,"Of all the K-Cups I have purchased so far, I like this French Roast the best. It has a really bold taste even used with the large-cup button. I like other coffee selections too, but this one really stands out.<br /><br />I consider myself an early adapter and the Keurig coffee machine is one of my best purchases. Although the coffee is somewhat expensive at $.40-.50 a cup, there is no waste, no pot cleanup, and, best of all, great coffee. I usually get up earlier than the rest of the household and can have my great coffee almost instantly without making a full pot that can go sour before all being drank.<br /><br />I notice that regular retailers such as Target and grocery stores are now carrying K-Cups, but buying online costs less and is more convenient. pjs"
,,,,,"Good quality, one of my ""go to"" flavored k-cups","I don't drink a lot of flavored k-cups, but people have been raving about Wolfgang Puck's k-cups, so I gave this a try. It's definitely a good quality flavored coffee with a medium body. Overall, I have enjoyed several cups of this and have temporarily shelved my Timothy flavored k-cups in favor of this one. I sometimes add sugar free vanilla syrup, cream, and cinnamon. It's excellent that was in place of dessert. I also tried caramel syrup added to this... don't do it. It overwhelms the flavor."
,,,,,Good medium strength coffee,I love coffee with no bitterness and lots of good coffee taste and this one fits the bill. Holds up well to milk & sugar-I love it in the morning for the first cup and in the evening just as much. Definitely would buy it again.
,,,,,Ew.,I bought a 24 pack of this an drank almost all of them before realizing what the flavor reminded me of. It tastes like hotdog water.
,,,,,"My Favorite, so far!","I love, love, love, this coffee.  It's easy on my stomach yet it has a rich medium roasted flavor which, in my opinion is not bland at all.  It's such a delicious cup of coffee.  I have told everyone about these, I've even converted Green Mountain lovers over to Wolfgang Puck Rodeo Drive brand.  If you like your coffee fully flavorful and delicious, but not too robust or bold, this coffee is for you.  I have tried MANY K-cup brands, Tully's, Green Mountain, Emeril's, Donut Shop, etc... and this brand is equal to Green Mountain, possibly even a bit BETTER. :)"
,,,,,Just blah...,"It seems the flavor selection on Amazon has been limited these days to some variation of hazelnut, french vanilla or chocolate so when I saw this one, I thought I'd give it a try.  Never having had Wolfgang Puck's k-cups, I was hoping they'd be as good as the Wolfgang Puck coffee I've had in hotel coffeemakers that were a part of my room but alas, I was mistaken. I wouldn't say it's the worst I've had but the flavor is pretty weak and the coffee itself is too.  I feel like I'm drinking coffee that's been made with grounds that have already been perked.  In other words - the flavor seems to be already squeezed out of them and I'm getting leftovers.<br /><br />If you're looking for a weakly flavored coffee that doesn't really taste like much of anything, this is your pod.  If you're looking for better, richer flavors, stick with Green Mountain which sadly Amazon doesn't seem to carry anymore except through third party vendors who want to charge $60 for a box!"
,,,,,Delicious! Amazing for a decaf coffee.,This is a fantastic decaf coffee. My parents love decaf but there aren't many out there they enjoy. We've been drinking Timothy's decaf Colombian and we bought this to try it. Fantastic! I would definitely buy this again and again. It's smooth and not bitter. It's not super strong so don't expect it to be like a cappacino. This is a really great Colombian cup of coffee. You won't miss the caffiene.
,,,,,Great cup of coffee,I like my coffe of the milder but tasteful side.  I thought this was a great cup of coffe I compare it to Timothy's dounut shoppe.  Full flavor but not acid.  This is for people who want a lighter cup of coffee
,,,,,Never again,I tried a double boxes of this when the Donut Shop  coffee I usually order was unavailable.  While the coffee is pretty good the cups suck.  A full 1/3 of the cups brewed are undrinkable.  They are slow to brew(coffee maker has to work very hard) and even then the cup retains an inordinate amount of water.  Checking some of the cups that left grounds in the brew showed that the filter was not properly installed.  They could sell these at half the price listed and you still would pay too much due to all the wasted coffee.  I believe we all have experienced a defective cup here or there but these are way beyond acceptable.
,,,,,Love it!,Jamican Me Crazy is the best coffee.  It is not too strong and has a unique taste.  No complaints here.  Highly recommend it.
,,,,,It's okay but I won't buy it again.,I like bold coffees and should have trusted the other reviewer who said it wasn't strong enough. This one has a watery finish to it and not very much flavor.  I'll be going back to Emeril's Jazz'd Up Decaf and trying the Coffee People's French Roast Decaf.  So far I've loved everything by the coffee people except the organic blend.  If you like strong coffee don't buy this but if you like a weaker coffee that you can see through you'd probably enjoy this one.
,,,,,One of the best flavored k-cups,This not only tastes great but has the best aroma while brewing. Subscribe and save is the way to go.
,,,,,Great Taste!,"I love this coffee!  I am not a strong coffee drinker and this coffee is perfect!  I have no problems with it working in my Cuisinart Keurig Brewer, I aways get the perfect tasting cup of coffee.<br /><br />I gave it 3 stars because one of the 2 packs contained only 13 K-Cups and not the 24 that it was supposed to have.<br /><br />The decaf 24-count (pack of 2) arrived with the correct amount of K-cups and is as yummy as the high test!"
,,,,,coffee pod,trying out different pods and this is a delicious one. service was excellent. no hassle at all. will buy from again
,,,,,"Interesting flavor, brew small cup","I wasn't sure what to expect with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but I am pleased.<br /><br />The Sorrento is a good medium roast.  It is a bit darker of a roast than some of the other mediums out in Keurig-land, but it isn't bitter.  There's just a little of something chocolatey in the flavor.<br /><br />My only complaint is that this coffee, like most of the Keurig cups that don't say ""extra bold"" on them, they brew up pretty weak if you do a larger mug.  I typically brew the 9.25 oz size, and on these guys I bumped it down to the 7.25 oz size.  If I brew it in the larger cups, it just comes out too weak.<br /><br />If you are one who feels that K-cups usually make weak coffee, you will think that these are really weak, and be tempted to brew 'em two at a time.  This coffee is not plain or unflavorvful -- there's just less coffee in the K-cup (or rather the normal, not extra-bold amount), so it brews up weaker."
,,,,,Nice flavour,"I like this coffee, its nice to drink it in the morning. It has medium body and full flavour. Goes great with raw sugar and splash of non fat milk."
,,,,,yuck,This was the nastiest flavored coffee I have ever had in kcups. I purchase many different kinds of flavored coffee and caramel is my favorite but this one made me gag. It smelled like buttery cheese and the taste was not what I expected. I will stick to gloria jeans and timothys flavored coffees. This was my first wolfgang puck kcup and will be the last I order of his brand. I thought maybe I got a bad cup but I brewed 3 and I opened the other box and tried those since it comes with two boxes and same nastiness.
,,,,,wonderful flavored coffee,"I'm a sucker for caramel anything.........love the flavor, the aroma, and most important the taste.  I honestly do not like flavored coffees in the morning, but I have made an exception for this one!"
,,,,,Good N Strong,"I am trying many different coffees to see which one's I like best. This coffee was good, but a little stronger than I had expected. I know it say's extra bold, but others I've tried have not been that ""extra"". I ended up putting it on my larger cup setting and it was perfect then. There was a little after taste, but not much more than other coffees. I would recommend it if you like stronger coffees, but it is not as strong as an espresso. I intend to purchase this again."
,,,,,Tasted like bitter oranges,"I thought it had a bitter orange flavor, however my husband and friend liked it."
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Sorrento K-cups,"We have tried just about every k-cup of regular coffee out there.  We don't do the flavor kind.  My husband loves the GM brand most of the coffees are mild (even when they say medium roast)...I go for a little more on the medium roast like the some of the Tully's and Caribou brands.  It used to be that we were always ordering the same brands, once we liked a certain one.  But I ventured to try the Wolfgang Puck line.  While this flavor is touted as a medium roast, it seems to be more on the bold side with a little bitterness.  It is still not a bad coffee, just not as good as the ""Rodeo Drive"" or ""Breakfast in Bed"" k-cups which has no bitterness.  I must say though, we have now added the latter 2 flavors of Wolfgang to our buying ritual."
,,,,,smooth/rich,I like a dark rich coffee and this is a tad different.  It seems much smoother and<br />I tend to nearly crave it when I have a slightly acid stomach.  It sounds odd and<br />I know I drink too much coffee but this fills that acid tummy niche.
,,,,,Awesome Taste,"Tried this for the first time this week and it is now my favorite coffee --with a hint of flavor (coconut). Full bodied, and no after taste, Jamaica Me Crazy is just what I love for an afternoon pick-me up, or to wake up and have an immediate smile on my face. Seriously -- It's Awesome! Highly Recommended."
,,,,,Bland,"My husband likes strong coffee.  I like medium.  Neither one of us like this particular one.  There just isn't much flavor of any kind...coffee or caramel.  We like the vanilla one much better.  We'll drink this until it's gone...but it's the last flavor we choose, and it's lasting way too long!"
,,,,,Possible K-cup Problem,"The taste is fine, but the K-cup container has opened at the seal during the brewing process on more than one occasion, resulting in a mouthful of coffee grounds!  I have never had this happen with any other brand of K-cup before and hope it is not the norm for Wolfgang Puck."
,,,,,Just OK,"I prefer the ""extra bold"" coffees, so this one really lacking on the flavor.  It's fairly weak, at the smallest cup setting its drinkable, but I won't be buying it again.  I'd recommend the Timothy's World Coffee, Rainforest Decaf Espresso instead."
,,,,,K-Cup Fan,Wolfgang's Reserve Columbian Decaf is probably the best decaf we have had in a K-cup. Very good cup of coffee!
,,,,,Delicious....,This is a coffee that I look forward to drinking as soon as I wake up! Very nice......
,,,,,light vanilla flavor,"Light vanilla favor....not overpowering. Nice coffee, the first box that was purchased was too light on the vanilla flavor and aroma....surprisingly the 2nd box was much better.  One of my new favorites."
,,,,,Great coffee,"We love our Keurig coffeemaker and have tried many coffees.  Recently discovered Wolfgang Puck's new line of coffees and are pleased with all of his we have tried.  This one is smooth with a great flavor, no bite.  We would purchase this again."
,,,,,good coffee,"This is a mild but delicious coffe....some might say ""a dessert coffee"". I really liked it as a pleasant change from full bodied flavors."
,,,,,Perfect Espresso K-Cup,"Was looking for a strong K-Cup that could hold up for the perfect Espresso and for a great cup of coffee! Now receiving on auto ship, if you're looking for a great bold K-Cup, this is it."
,,,,,One of my favorites,"I read several great reviews on this coffee on another site and decided to give it a try. It's now one of my favorites and I will be ordering it again. The taste is great, sweet but bold enough that I can do a large size and it still have flavor."
,,,,,Excellent coffee,Great coffee.  Has a nice bold taste for a medium roast coffee. This is my new favorite. Give it a whirl.
,,,,,"smooth, mild flavor - not as strongly flavored as other brands","I bought a two pack at the Friday sale for $20.  Reasonable, but not an amazing deal.  I've been pleasantly surprised by the taste.  I do like the Van whatever flavor French Vanilla K-cups, and this contains significantly milder flavoring of a good tasting coffee.<br />I would and have served it to company and highly recommend serving with milk or cream.<br /><br />If you like flavored coffees, you'll most likely enjoy this one.  If you like it plain and black, you'll probably hate this."
,,,,,Medium Roast. Touch of Sweetness. Not Acidic.  Great with Milk.,"Nice medium coffee blend that has a hint of vanilla and a touch of sweetness.  If you like <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001HWI700"">Emeril's Vanilla Bean Bam!, Medium Roast Coffee for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001CHJ03I"">Gloria Jean's Coffees, Cappuccino for Keurig Brewers, 24-Count K-Cups (Pack of 2)</a>, you should like this blend.<br /><br />I drink this as an afternoon or dessert coffee with a splash of milk and a sugar packet.<br /><br />4 Stars because I would like just a touch more vanilla flavor.<br /><br />1/21/11: we ordered another box of this coffee and the vanilla flavor seemed to be a little stronger than our first box."
,,,,,Just Okay - Hidden Decaf.,Taste is okay.  Not blown away.  Hidden is the fact that this is truly a decaffeinated coffee.  Only place to find this out is on the bottom of the box.  Not what I want first thing in the morning.
,,,,,Flavored cofffee?,I am not a fan of flavored coffee and I thought I had read the description of this product very carefully but nowhere did I see any indication that it was a flavored coffee. I wish the descriptions of the coffees offered by Amazon were clearer so that there is no confustion as to what you are purchasing. Even the name of the product is a little deceptive since one might assume that it is Jamaican coffee.
,,,,,Jamaica Me Crazy Terrible,I use to purchase Jamaica beans locally and it was great. This Jamaica me crazy is nothing close to it. The odor is terrible and it tastes like the coffee is flat or stale. Other people in household tried it and couldn't get past the first cup. Pitched the remainder cups in the trash.
,,,,,Don't waste your money or your Keurig on this!,"This coffee tastes very flavorful and is not too strong, but I have to say it almost ruined my months' old Keurig Personal Brewer. The coffee is ground so finely that when the K-Cups are punctured by the needles (top and bottom), it gets packed into the needles and also sifts out through the holes made by the needles, going into the coffee cup creating a very nasty ""sludge"" in the bottom of each cup. I purchased a pack of 2 (48 K-Cups) and didn't even use one full pack. I do not recommend this brand or blend. It is a waste of money, which is something I couldn't really afford at this time. I sent a letter of complaint to the Wolfgang Puck company and, except for a ""cookie cutter"" letter acknowledging receipt of my comment, I have not received any further contact from them."
,,,,,What a waste of money!,"Unfortunately, I'm much too frugal to throw away something I've spent perfectly good money on, so I'm continuing to use these suckers until they're gone (hopefully in a few weeks). I thought I was buying a decent brand of coffee, given the Wolfgang Puck name, but alas, I was wrong. Using the middle cup size on my Keurig coffeemaker, these k-cups make a weak cup of coffee... more like brown water. No taste, no nothing. I switched to the smallest size cup and it's marginally better, but still barely drinkable. I wouldn't serve these to guests EVER. I can't wait to be done with these boxes of junk so I can order something with some taste. Please don't waste your money."
,,,,,bad tasting coffee,"this was terrible coffee Wolfgang Pucks Jamaicamecrazy, I received a partial refund but felt I should have gotten a full refund as I can't drink the coffee and had to throw it all away. Also had to pay shipping and should not of had to. I would like a response to this."
,,,,,A pleasing cup of coffee,"I found the taste and strength of this coffee just right for it to gain the honor of one of my ""go-to"" coffees for my Keurig.  Not too strong or bitter, I rather enjoy the flavor.  Sadly with the recent ""K-cup coup"" staged by Green Mountain Coffees, it looks like Amazon isn't carrying the Wolfgang Puck coffees any longer and my Subscribe and Save (and my business) will need to go elsewhere.  Definitely give this coffee a shot if you can."
,,,,,"Nice flavor, but very weak","The aroma is pleasant, and flavor is nice and smooth, but it is very, very weak.  I really wanted to like this one as there are very few available on subscribe and save, but I just cannot recommend it.  Even making smaller cups it is very weak.  I'm going to stick to Newman's Own Organics Extra Bold as my go to k-cup for now."
,,,,,weak,"I had tried Green Mountain Sumatra Reserve and found it delicious and strong. It's not available on ""subscribe and save"" so I read the reviews and opted for Wolfgang Puck. My husband likes it and I like the flavour but it's very weak in comparison to the Green Mountain. I have to order something else for me."
,,,,,"Meh...Okay, Not Great","We love Hazelnut coffee, but this just didn't have enough coffee flavor in it for me. Kind of on the weak side in my opinion. I'll keep looking."
,,,,,Great find!,"Love this coffee! The aroma is as delicious as the flavor. My husband would typically have a cup of coffee once or twice a month, now he's having a cup several times a week."
,,,,,crazy flavor combination.,"I admit, I am not terribly fond of flavored coffees. But, this one is not for us. We both love the Rodeo Drive. I have a good freind that loves this coffee. I sent her ours."
,,,,,Overpowering flavor and watery- Coffee lovers beware,"I found this coffee to be great at first, but as I started having it more and more I came to detest it. On the large setting the coffee is WAY too watery. Also, the flavor is very, very overpowering and kind of tastes like bananas.<br /><br />It is a pretty good mid-afternoon or evening desert coffee, but other than that it is kinda gross."
,,,,,What a disappointment,"I am definitely not a coffee connoisseur, but this stuff is bad.  It is a disappointment because I expected a Wolfgang Puck product to have more ""class.""  This tastes artificial and it can't stand alone without tons of cream and sweetener.  Will not buy again!"
,,,,,Ewwwww!!!!,"Really?  Who blends this stuff and decides that it is good?  Ugh.  I can sum this nastyness up in one quick phrase.  Stale airline coffee!  If you like that flavor, then you will love this one, if you don't like thin cardboard soaked, never washed the pot out, and the water came from a tin canteen, flavored coffee, then you won't like this one either!  I would give this zero stars if I could.  WOW, likely the worst cup of coffee that I have ever had.  I hope Wolfy reads this as his name is on the package and I expected more, now I know not to buy any of his signature products, awesome, thanks for saving me $$ next time!  The package says Extra Bold, but it doesn't taste extra bold.  It's almost like they put some ground instant powder in the mix to make it stronger."
,,,,,not good,The coffee tasted bitter and like it was burnt.  I cleaned the machine and it still tasted bitter and burnt.  Will not order this again.
,,,,,Really???,"I'm amazed that people are happy with this product.  I'm not a drinker of the dark brews, French roast or anything, but even for a drinker of a milder cup of coffee, this is completely tasteless.  The initial scent is delicious, too bad none of it shows up in the actual coffee."
,,,,,No flavor - very weak,I got this through a Decaf Keurig assortment pack (also from amazon) and while I have enjoyed all of the flavors - thisone was so weak - I had to post a review.
,,,,,bitter,"To me this coffee was extremely bitter.  I dumped it out and made a different cup.  It made me afraid to try other WP coffees but I did like the WP Sumatra Kopi Raya.<br /><br />For reference purposes my in store drink is a Starbucks Americano.<br /><br />My favorite k-cups are:<br />Starbucks French Roast<br />Starbucks Caffe Verona<br />Starbucks Pike Place Roast<br />Green Mountain Xtra Bold Sumatran Reserve<br />Green Mountain Double Black Diamond<br />Green Mountain Revv<br />Green Mountain Dark Magic<br /><br />Other k-cups I've tried:  Coffee People Jet Fuel ,Green Mountain Dark Magic Decaf, Emeril Jazzed up Decaf, Starbucks Caffe Verona, Coffee People Black Tiger,  Starbucks House Blend, Starbucks Breakfast Blend, Starbucks Sumatra, Wolfgang Puck French Roast, Green Mountain Lake and Lodge, Green Mountain French Roast, Caribou Mahogony, Wolfgang Puck Sumatra Kopi Raya, Emeril Big Easy Bold"
,,,,,Not a fan of this blend,"Coffee is a very subjective thing.  Some people like coffee that borders on tea, others like the stuff that a certain national chain named after a famous Battlestar Galactica pilot serves.  For the record, I love the slightly-sour taste of Dunkin Donuts coffee and I find the stuff made by ""that other chain"" to be akin to re-hydrated cigarette ash.  For many years, we still percolated coffee...with most big-name brands of pre-ground coffee, you needed a percolator to bring out the flavor in it, but again, your tastes may vary.<br /><br />With my Keurig, my favorite coffee was Paul Neumans Extra Bold....because it didn't seem Extra Bold.  Until you buy 80 of them and get tired of the flavor.  Then, my favorites were the Caribu's....but something happened to that brand (see reviews) and I agree, they did something...either they don't put as much in the cups or they changed the blend, the sourcing of the beans, etc......wasted money on Caribu and wont go back to the brand.<br /><br />So Wolfgang Puck got the nod, tried 4 different flavors.  This one, Sorrento, is not my favorite of the bunch (currently Colombian Chef's Reserve).  It has a bolder strength (which I believe hard core coffee drinkers would consider Medium), but to me it has a simple burnt flavor to it.  Cream and Sweetener don't correct for this, and thus I'm a bit disappointed....but again it was a stab in the dark.<br /><br />I think if you prefer a slightly bolder, slightly more burnt flavor in your coffee...this may be for you.  I like the character of the Colombian Chef's Reserve, but it is not as strong, and perhaps that is just what my taste is slanted towards.  I don't believe you can get a bad cup of coffee in the Wolfgang Puck line however.  Can't say the same for some other K-cup brands."
,,,,,WORST COFFEE I'VE EVER HAD!,This Wolfgang Puck Coffee Jamaica Me Crazy is the worst coffee I've ever had!<br />I threw it out right away after one sip! It taste like all coconut flavoring.<br />Hard to believe someone thought this taste good and was marketable. They should be fired!
,,,,,Hazelnut?!?,Ugh... no where on the Amazon page for this item did it state that it was Hazelnut flavored.  I have been choking this down for a month just trying to get through it.  Thought it was going to be a Blue Mountain-like Jamaican coffee...
,,,,,Mediocre,This coffee is only mediocre in quality. I do not like a highly acidic coffee nor do I like it when the coffee outdates within 6 weeks of the order date. The only reason I am not more dissatified with this lousy coffee is that I paid very little for it by using a credit I had at amazon payments. I do not recommend this coffee.
,,,,,"good coffee, good deal","It is a medium roast pleasant coffee, comparable to green mountain's breakfast blend. I bought it with a very good deal though."
,,,,,Simply - It's terrible,"If Keurig brewers were evaluated by this particular K-Cup, Keurig would be out of business. Wolfgang Puck - French Roast Melange Francais is inexcusably terrible coffee. Aroma hints of singed oak leave and the top note is simply bitter.  Mid taste is like the bottom ounces of a days old Kwiki-Mart carafe.  Mouth feel is harsh and leaves an appalling coating. The after taste leads one to immediately brush ones teeth.  I simply couldn't believe my Keurig was capable of making such a bad cup of coffee, so I tried again a week later with same results. I use average-to-good filtered water and have no problems with other brands like Green Mountain, Tulleys, nor Emeril's. Everyone I know that has a Keurig learned of it via word of mouth or a shared cup. Usually the results are stunning, and the Keurig invasion lives on.  When I share I'll stick with offering The Coffee Peoples' Black Tiger or Jet Fuel. Now I have 22 more WP/FR K-cups sitting in the bottom draw of my china cabinet to get rid of. Let me know if you want them, as I'd be embarrassed to even give them away.  Sorry Wolfgang, but what the Puck - your French Roast is unpardonably horrible, and at K-cup prices I'll not be duped again. I'll stay away from any of the other WP offerings."
,,,,,Horrible,This stuff tasted like pipe tobacco smells. My Son didn't like it either and I ended up throwing it out.
,,,,,Terrrrific!!,"Simply Awesome. I love bold coffee and love French Roast Brews. This is a truly wonderful FR blend. Dittos for Deidrich FR, both are awesome.<br /><br />I also tend to like the BOLD COFFEE PEOPLE KCUPS...Most all I've tried have been bold and flavorful, each with it's own distinct flavor."
,,,,,Just got the coffee... LOVE IT!!!,"I got the coffee for 12.50 per box.  Ordered 4 boxes!!  Such a great deal, as the coffee is a great blend.<br /><br />If anyone is upset because of the website having issues when they were trying to buy it, they shouldn't review the product poorly, as it is not the product that is the problem.<br /><br />The problem is that you're jealous you didn't get such a great deal on the coffee.  Grow up kids, this coffee is great!!!  Will buy from Amazon.com, LLC again for more K-Cups for my Keurig.<br /><br />ALL OF MY COFFEE ARRIVED PACKAGED WELL AND IN NEW CONDITION, NOTHING WRONG WITH IT!!"
,,,,,Satisfying!,"Highly recommended for those who appreciate a good dark roast coffee, Wolfgang's Sumatra Kopi Raya excites the flavor buds and ignites one's morning... always a good start to any day."
,,,,,Never got a chance...and still climbing,Ok...TODAY 4/15 this company decided to put them up for sale at 12.50 per 24pk...  This advertisement was on SLICKDEALS.NET<br /><br />Well... Went to order and refreshed the page and in my cart was now 1 at 36 dollars???? so they sold one out of my cart.<br />Next.... I waited 20 mins to see if it was a fluke and SD.NET started claiming dead link.<br /><br />Well upon refreshing again... they were now 44.95 for one 24 pack...<br /><br />Hey RIDICULOUS SELLER..... GET WITH THE PROGRAM ...IF THIS IS YOUR WAY OF RECOVERING QUICK MONEY...I THINK PEOPLE ARE MUCH SMARTER THEN THAT UPON PRESSING CONFIRM MY ORDER>..... ROUND OF APPLAUSE TO YOU FOR BEING SO UN-TECH-SAVY
,,,,,Bitter w/ overtones of cardboard,No thanks.  Kind of bitter and has slight overtone of cardboard.  Organic Bold and Donut Shop are still our faves.
,,,,,The WORST coffee !,The worst!!! it is just plan awful bitter and strong and you cannot taste the Hazel Nut flavor at all!!!!!  Do not buy this product save your money!!!!!
,,,,,Wolfgang K-cup,"K-cups are marginally better than good coffee that I can buy at the store for 1/2 the price or less. This product was offered at $19.95 and I was willing to purchase it but it immediately went up to $26.95. It is not really worth $19.95 and is certainly not worth any increase. Additionally, what's the deal on offering INSTANT COFFEE in K-cups for $15.99 leaving us to think it's a good deal on REAL coffee. Do you want to lose our trust (business)???? That's a good way to do it!!!!!!!!!!<br />jb"
,,,,,Taste like old socks,I thought this coffee was really horrible. Had one cup and will throw the rest away because it can't be returned.
,,,,,Can't offer much guidance,"I ordered the vanilla coffee for my college age children.  Unfortunately, there were shipping delays and it did not arrive until the kids had returned to college for the Fall semester.  Update to come when they finally come home for a break -- it may be a while.  The other coffees I have ordered have all been tasty and a very good value, I have no reason to believe this will be any different. I can say that the k cups and the Keurig have been delightful.  I enjoy having a freshly brewed cup every time and like that I save a bunch of money by brewing at home into a travel mug rather than stopping to drop $2.00 for a cup on the way to work.  Saves all those styrofoam cups too!"
,,,,,Yuk!  Twangy aftertaste and weak coffee make this one to avoid.,"I bought both the Creme Caramel and this Hazelnut kcup and I couldn't tell them apart even if my life depended on it... The flavor is pretty weak and the coffee itself is too and unlike the Caramel one, this one has a nasty bitter aftertaste like the flavor is artificial.  Yeah, I know it's artificial but I hate that it actually tastes like a chemical!  Yuk...<br /><br />This is one of those coffees you can serve to company who doesn't know good coffee or people you don't want to have come to your house any more as one cup of this and they won't be your friends after it!  It really is quite bad."
,,,,,Not Extra Bold,Definitely not extra bold...medium roast at best.  Not particularly memorable...doesn't have a good coffee aroma...but it's pretty decent tasting.  At this point I'm not sure if I would reorder.
,,,,,horrible coffee,this coffee has a very funny taste to it not good you would think wolfgang it would be good dont buy this coffee this is a review of 6 people there are 6 people in my shop we all hate it not good
,,,,,Great balance,"I'm not a coffee snob. If I was, I doubt I'd own a Keurig. I just want a decent tasting cup of coffee with little cleanup.<br /><br />I've tried many of the flavored coffees, but they're too gimmicky for me. Starbucks brand tastes burnt to me, even their blonde roast -- in stores I mean, I have not tried the Starbucks brand kcups.<br /><br />I like this breakfast blend because it's not too dark, not too light. It tastes like what no-frills coffee should taste like. I order the biggest size to get the best value.<br /><br />Update: I just tried to create a review for the ""Jamaica Me Crazy"" coconut flavor, which I thought was terrible. (And I *love* coconut.) I should specify that the original review was for ""Breakfast in Bed."""
,,,,,"Disappointed, this is not BOLD coffee","I was so excited to try a new BOLD coffee.....needless to say, I am disappointed. I would rate this coffee as a MEDIUM. If it would have been listed as a MEDIUM, I would have given it a higher rating because this is truly a MEDIUM strength coffee in taste and flavor. I will still drink it from time to time- flavor is smooth, not bitter. Overall, I wish that I would have ordered some more Jet Fuel or Black Tiger."
,,,,,"Good stuff, but overpriced","I do like this coffee, but even with Subscribe and Save, Amazon's price is higher than K-cups at Bed Bath & Beyond.  Convenience is one thing, but since there are BB&Bs all around me, it's pretty easy to pick up my coffee there and save a few bucks.  I wish Amazon would price their coffees more competitively - I'd buy here exclusively if they did.  But this is good, medium roast coffee.  Not quite as strong as I'd like, but a little stronger than the Breakfast in Bed version.  I may need to try Sorrento and see if it's a little bolder."
,,,,,Average offering from Wolfgang Puck,"So here is another example of a 48-pack of k-cups I bought ""untested"".  I figured, well, I really enjoy Sumatra's bold, smooth and rich with a bit of bitterness flaver, so why not?  Wolfgang puck has a few restaurants, so maybe he knows coffee.<br /><br />So, this is utterly average in all departments.  It's not very bold or rich, although I can say it does have the bitterness, which is a bit unbalanced as it lacks the richness.  Purchased only because it appeared on the Subscribe & Save at a great price per k-cup.  That makes two WP's that have been run of the mill at best [Sumatra & French roast].  Next time I'll be more discerning."
,,,,,Average quality French roast,"I really like to mix things up with k-cups and rarely buy 50-ct boxes of a single flavor.  Exception to the rule would be for dark, bold coffees such as French roasts, which I really enjoy.  So when Wolfgang Puck's French roast turned up on Amazon's deal of the week, even though I have never tried before, now I have 48 units.<br /><br />It's fairly non-descript for a French roast.  Decent aroma, but taste is muted compared to, for example, a Diedrich French roast.  I don't hate or even dislike it, it's 'okay', and for the price I paid, is acceptable without complaint.  It may make an acceptable guest coffee for those wanting something a little bolder without being over the top rich.<br /><br />I'd call it mildly bold, average, and I won't be going out of my way to keep it on hand."
,,,,,Great mild cup of coffee,"My favorite K-Cup so far. Absolutely NO aftertaste, which in my book is a huge plus. It's not acidic, not bitter, just a great MILD cup of coffee, which is exactly what it purports to be! I wish other people would read the description before they give a bad review based on their own stupidity. Don't buy a MEDIUM roast coffee and complain because it's not bold! Also, as a general rule the ones with ""Breakfast"" in the name are milder. I don't care for bold, dark roast, slap you awake coffee so I wouldn't buy a bold coffee and then complain that it was bold."
,,,,,Well-rounded but weak,"I've read so many reviews on the many brands and varieties of K-cups... coffee preferences are so subjective.  I did like the flavor of this coffee -- bold but not bitter.  As to ""strength"" I wish that there was more coffee in each K-cup... I am accustomed to Starbuck's strength, and I have to set my Keurig to medium-cup size to get the strength I need.  This is not as cost-effective as -- say Jet Fuel (but I found Jet Fuel too bitter.)<br />If Wolfgang Puck would add more coffee to its K-cups, this would be a perfect coffee for me."
,,,,,nothing special,"Wolfgang Puck's ""Breakfast in Bed"" is a much more flavorful and robust medium roast than this one."
,,,,,Best Iced K-Cup I've Had!,"This coffee has a very tropical taste to it, so it's perfect for iced coffee on a hot day.  The flavor is not bad when heated, but it just seems a little odd.<br /><br />You don't usually think of tropical beverages being hot."
,,,,,"Pleasant, smooth and flavorful cup of coffee","We have been enjoying our order of W.Puck Sumatra Kopi Raya dark roast coffee K-cups for the last week.  We find the delicious flavor very satisfying...not so strong to be bitter, and not so weak as to taste like colored water.  The coffee is perfect. There is just the right amount of heartiness to make it an enjoyable coffee experience, and it carries a nice lingering pleasant flavor and aroma.  It is not as strong as an espresso, but maybe one step below.  Like we said, ""pleasant, smooth, and flavorful!"""
,,,,,pretty good for decaf,I am not a fan of any of the decaf k cups I have tried but this one is probably the best.I like strong coffee and his comes pretty close to what I would expect although it says medium roast.
,,,,,Wonderfully yummy,"I was intrigued how this particular blend got such an exotic name, and I wasn't disappointed.  There is an ever so slight coconut aftertaste that makes this so delicious,  I don't like strong coffee, and this is perfect for my husband and I.  I get it send regularly now and it's one of our favorites!  Second only to Jamaica Me Crazy by Wolfgang Puck.  Wolfgang is much tastier than the other brands."
,,,,,Exquisitely Flavored Medium Coffee,"I tried this coffee on a half dozen quests this weekend and they all loved it.  For those that like their coffee mild, I brewed 7 oz cups.  For those of us that like it bold, I brewed 5 oz cups.<br /><br />As an earlier posted noted, it does have a slightly flavored quality to the taste that makes it stand out from other coffees.  The taste isn't obvious enough to turn off drinkers who want their coffee ""regular and black"" but strong enough to note for those of us that pay attention.<br /><br />I plan on trying all of Wolfgang's line.  Wish he'd offer a variety pack."
,,,,,WARNING... this is a strongly FLAVORED coffee,"This is not regular coffee as the description would lead you to believe... it's artificially flavored, and it appears from the other ratings that you either love the flavor or hate it. My household hated it. Of course, that would be my problem if the description was accurate, but it's not. Amazon refunded my money and said someone would check the information on the product page."
,,,,,Dee-lish,"I just got my box today and brewed a cup after work. It's one of my favorite k-cups yet!! I recommend it. Smooth, doesn't taste watered down, and no bitter aftertaste. The cups also look pretty in my k-cup rack :-)"
,,,,,The Best Hazelnut K-Cup!,"Wolfgang Puck's Hawaiian Hazelnut is the best K-Cup Hazelnut and I have tried them all. We ordered this large pack, because we sadly found out that Wolfgang Puck is discontinuing many (not all) of their K-Cups, including this flavor. Buy this while you can!"
,,,,,great coffee,"So far, of all the decaf Kcups we have tried, this is our favorite.  Wish it were on the automatic ordering system.  Coffee is such an individual like or dislike but when we use it with an 8oz cup of water it is great."
,,,,,Best K-cup Coffee!,I bought the Kuerig because I love the Dunkin Original and Green Mountain Nantucket Blend.  Rodeo Drive has now become my favorite.  It is very delicious and smooth.
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Decaf can't miss!,"When I feel that I do not need more caffine, I have found that the Wolfgang Puck Decaf is a great substitute.  I really can't tell the difference, taste wise.  I had been having trouble finding a good decaf.  I think this one is it."
,,,,,What a great cup of coffee,"Sometimes I feel when I reach for a decaffeinated K-cup that I'm going to settle for less flavor. However, I'm completely happy with this product. I don't feel I'm missing anything. Everyday I treat myself to a relaxing cup of coffee after work before starting dinner. This product just fits  what I'm looking for."
,,,,,Enjoyable flavor!,"I got a 5 k-cup sample box of this coffee from Keureg, and I find that it is my favorite decaf coffee. It brews a smooth tasting cup of coffee every time. I add some 1/2 & 1/2 and a bit of Equal, and it is a treat any time.<br />Glad to have found this coffee."
,,,,,great decaf coffee!,"Wolfgang Puck coffees are very good. This particular flavor of decaf is delicious - doesn't taste like decaf at all, very rich & flavorful. Also, this was a very good value for the price. I've recommended this product to several friends."
,,,,,My Favorite K-Cup,"My wife and I have decided hands down, this is our favorite K-cup. We've tried a lot of others, and Donut Shop and Caribu Daybreak are certainly still up there. However, this has a very solid body flavor with a medium roast. Almost a bold flavor with a smooth finish. Excellent flavor versus strength. Really nice to get up on a lazy Sunday morning and have a nice cup of Breakfast in Bed!<br /><br />Also, I see another reviewer had problems with messy K-cups. I can say after about 6 boxes of theses, I haven't had any issues. Very unfortunate for the other reviewer, but looks like it was rather isolated.<br /><br />Give it a try, you'll certainly enjoy it, the wife and I sure do!"
,,,,,Unremarkable,"First, let me say that I prefer extra-bold K-Cup coffees and only occasionally drink a medium blend, and never decaf. I bought three Wolfgang Puck coffees several months ago: Rodeo Drive Blend; French Roast; and Sumatra Kopi Raya. All three are quite drinkable, though they do not measure up to a few of the extra-bold blends from Coffee People: Kona Blend; Organic Blend; Jet Fuel; and Black Tiger. Even better than these, though, is my new favorite, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003M7TTYG"">Green Mountain's Revv</a>. Those who prefer a strong, dark cup of coffee (even at the larger mug setting) should try that brand.<br /><br />Previously, I had found the dark-roast Green Mountain coffees rather boring, but Revv lives up to the hype, both in strength and flavor. Another great Green Mountain coffee is their Espresso Blend (though Amazon doesn't stock it, so the prices tend to be higher here than in brick-and-mortar stores such as Bed Bath and Beyond). Finally, a favorite regular over the years has been <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004M5W7YQ"">Emeril's Big Easy Bold</a>. It's a very nice coffee, though don't expect the New Orleans experience of chicory flavor.<br /><br />Bottom line: You won't go wrong with the Wolfgang Puck coffees, but for my taste they do not stand out among the available bold coffees."
,,,,,Light Coconut Flavored Coffee.,"I am usually a non flavored coffee drinker, but I do like to mix things up every now and again. This is a lightly coconut flavored coffee. The coffee itself is a medium brew and it goes well with the tropical undertones of the coconut. It is a nice summer drink."
,,,,,Rodeo Drive - delicious coffee,I love quite a few coffees but this one is grabbing my whole households attention. It's not bitter but it's not light either. It's perfect. I love it.
,,,,,Pretty Good Decaf,"I switched to Decaf and was looking for a decent cup on the Keurig machine.  I was only interested in Subscribe and Save options.<br /><br />This is a fairly light roast, which I like.  I brew on the middle setting and I think if it was brewed any larger I would think it was too light."
,,,,,Not my favorite,"Of all the K-Cup flavors that are out there, and there are many very good ones, this is one of my least favorites, and I have tried almost all of them.  Not much flavor to this one, even if you add various types of creamers.  Of course, it is all a matter of taste, but this one doesn't taste all that good.  It is not bad - it is just kind of there - like a generic coffee.  Try something else instead."
,,,,,K cup Coffee,Absolutely love Wolfgang Puck Rodeo Drive K Cups.  It is the best.  Nice rich flavor but not too strong.  Best one yet!
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck coffee rodeo drive blend medium roast K-cup for keurig,I have purchase this coffee several times my husband said it has a great taste and it is a good cup of coffee
,,,,,Jamaica Me Happy!,"I am a huge fan of Jamaica Me Crazy coffee.  There was a time in my life when I was totally caffeine free and off the dark stuff, but a customer in the bank I worked at brought in a pound of this coffee as a gift to the tellers.  Every time someone walked by my desk with a cup of this freshly made joe, the smell would really tempt me to go back to consuming coffee again.  Eventually it broke me down, and I am back to being a full time coffee drinker, and proud of it! Imagine how happy I was to find my favorite brew in a K-cup!  The only thing better than a cup of Jamica Me Crazy is a cup sweetened with the new Almond Joy flavor International Creamer in it to highlight the sweet coconut.  Unfortunately, we only have a Keurig at our office (I'm in Real Estate now), so I have to go to work to enjoy a cup.  I'm thinking I have a brilliant boss who knows how to get people to willingly show up to work! Now if I can just figure a way to use it to temp more buyers into our office - I'd have it made ;0)"
,,,,,Nice mellow cup of coffee!,"I bought this grudgingly because my favorite Timothy's Italian Blend was out of stock...... and I was very happily surprised! It's not as ""big""  and winey a brew as my favorite, but was flavorful, had a delicious aroma and was smooth. I tend to like rather potent coffee but I have clients who prefer a little lighter cup..... this will be perfect! I will happily keep buying this coffee. Thanks Wolfgang!"
,,,,,So good!,"I think this is a love it or hate it kind of coffee.  I love it.  The flavor starts out similar to butter toffee, but then sort of morphs into coconut, pineapple, and rum.  I think it's delicious and unique, and I don't ever want to be without some in my cupboard."
,,,,,New favorite!,"This one will not disappoint!  I got this yesterday and my husband and I tried it this morning with breakfast and we both loved it.  I have gotten many different kinds of the k-cups to try but after trying this one, I think I could be happy with just this one and black tiger for those mornings when I want a really strong cup of coffee.  The rodeo drive blend is delicious with a nice round feel on the palate and an interesting flavor on the finish with just a hint of smokiness.  Perfectly balanced and absolutely wonderful!  Plus, I have to admit...I love the label. The different color looks very appealing on my carousel with the other k-cups."
,,,,,One of the best K-cups,"We've tried many of the K-cups that are available, and this is in our top 3. We prefer a darker, bolder flavor, and this one hits the mark. At the same time it's quite smooth."
,,,,,Mild and Flavorful,My husband I both like a mild tasting coffee.  We thought we would give Wolfgang Puck Breakfast in Bed a try.  We were pleasantly surprised by the full bodied taste but without the bitterness of some of the stronger tasting coffee's.  We are very satisfied and will be drinking this for a long time!  Now if I can only get my husband to take the name literally!
,,,,,Rich Tasting Coffee,"This k-cup is one of my favorites along with Coffee People's Jet Fuel and Black Tiger.  If you like a strong, rich coffee, this will fit the bill."
,,,,,A Winner cup of coffee!,"Not too strong, not too weak...smooth without the bitterness.  Great anytime for those not into the strong ""grow hair on your chest"" types.  We will continue to purchase this as a part of our favorite brands."
,,,,,K-Cup Fan,Wolfgang's Rodeo Drive does make a good ole cup of coffee. It is on the same line as Donut Shop. Very good morning coffee to wake up with.
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck coffee for Keurig maker,The coffee was more on the light side rather than medium roast.  I don't think I would purchase it again even though it was a good value purchase.
,,,,,Colombian decaf,I have tried several decaf K-cubs and have found this to be the best. My husband does not like decaf but has finally found this one he will drink because it has a little bolder taste.I find it a good coffee to have in the house for company because everyone seems to like it. I will be ordering it again and again!
,,,,,Good Stuff,This coffee is for those who like a strong robust flavor. Nothing wimpy about it. I like just enough cocoa mix and creamer to take off the edge. My husband goes for the gusto. Great wake-me-up-in-the-morning brew. Love it!
,,,,,Great Coffee,"This is an excellent blend perfect for any time. Was really surprised by the quality, flavor and finish."
,,,,,barely any vanilla aroma or flavor,"As coffee, these kcups are just ok.  As ""flavored"" coffee these are disappointing.  I found the vanilla to be barely detectable."
,,,,,OK coffee but not the best by far,"After receiving this coffee I made a few cups.  It was fairly smooth, not too overpowering, and had a slight mocha aroma.  It's OK coffee.  I likely will not purchase this one again because there are so many better ones.  To gauge my review for others, my favorites are Coffee People Donut Shop, Green Mountain Dark Magic, Coffee People Organic Bold, Emeril's Big Easy Bold, and Tully's Kona Blend."
,,,,,Good stuff!,"Nice, smooth cup of Joe. High recommend. Not sure why there is not more reviews?!?!"
,,,,,Wolfgang Puck Coffee - Sumatra Kopi Raya for Keurig,"This coffee was in a ""sample"" selection when we ordered our Keurig Brewer.  It was by far our favorite!  I have ordered this coffee several times from Amazon.  It is a dark roast, but not too strong."
,,,,,Tastes great,You get a consistent cup of coffee with a hint of hazelnut. A cup of hot coffee in about 20 seconds that tastes great... what's not to like about that?! :)
,,,,,Best caramel K-cup!,These have a stronger caramel flavor although still a medium strength coffee.  The best caramel flavored K-cup I've tried!  I will reorder them.
,,,,,Love Love Love This Coffee!!!,I want to try other types of coffee but I am so stuck on this one that it's hard to try anything else!  This is a mild roast.  Medium or dark roast is too strong for me these days.  The hazelnut flavor it very nice and every cup brewed is superb.  I have been drinking this Wolfgang Puck Hawaiian Hazelnut for at least 6 months and it never fails to please.  Give it a try :)
,,,,,one of the better K cups I've tried,love this Rodeo Drive it has a very drinkable taste is also good and it is smooth! I recomend that you try this one.
,,,,,Delicious,This is the most delicious coffee ever It does not mess up your stomach it's amazing and tastes wonderful and everyone at work loves it too
,,,,,Favorite!!!,"For years, I've been completely devoted to Dunkin Donuts brewed at the store and at home.  I tried brewing DD in my K cup and I also bought the Eco Brew and the actual DD k cups.  Awful!  So I was searching high and low for a new coffee.  After trying all the decaf k cups on the market, I finally found and loved Wolfgang Puck decaf coffee k cups.  This is the only place I can find them so I hope Amazon never stops selling them here.  They are mellow, medium roast and I enjoy them every day.  Any other brand is just a back up.  Try them.  I have never had any trouble with any of the cups and I'm on my third order now of 48 cups.  If they had a problem, they've fixed it.<br /><br />This is an update being done on July 7, 2012.  I continue to drink at least two cups of this coffee EVERY day.  It has ruined me for other coffees as I measure every other cup against this incredible Wolfgang Puck Decaf k cup.  Please, please, PLEASE Amazon, make this part of your subscription service.  My head hurts trying to make sure that I always remember to order so as not to ever be out of this wonderful coffee."
,,,,,Almost Bitter,I really like medium strength coffee but this is a little too bold to be considered medium. It is almost bitter when compared to other medium coffees.
,,,,,Breakfast Delight,Great product to start your AM with as its not too strong but just the right tast for your morning wake us up.
,,,,,Successful experiment!,"Our Keurig coffee maker was a great Christmas gift last year. One of the pleasures of this device is the experimentation with various coffee blends. Some have worked well; others have not. Some are too mild; some are a bit ""off"" on taste.<br /><br />This Wolfgang Puck product is one of the more successful experiments with the Keurig machine. It has a rich taste and still remains smooth. Not too strong a flavor, but it does have flavor.<br /><br />So, the two coffee drinkers in my household are quite pleased to drink this brew."
,,,,,Okay but not great,This coffee is okay but certainly not as good as Green Mountain's Breakfast Blend. It just doesn't taste as good.
,,,,,Tasty but Expensive,"This is a great flavored coffee nevertheless, K-cups are getting too expensive for everyday home use.  I am now using the filler and using my own ground coffee much of the time. It's also helpful to look for other price alternatives."
,,,,,"Great, but not perfect","I roast my own Colombian beans at home so I have a perfect ""10"" for reference. Right off the bat let me say that just like their Sumatran reserve, this k-cup is not bitter, but smooth. The aftertaste is also smooth. My chief complaint is it does not taste like a Colombian bean. It really is missing the deep flavor of a columbian coffee, while the Sumatran Puck K-cup definitely has a Sumatran taste. The ""8 oclock"" brand you see in many grocery stores has a more distinct flavor than this k-cup. That being said, my final recommendation is that I would recoommend the Puck Sumatran over this if you like a distinct coffee flavor. However, if you are looking for a not-too-stong-but-not-bitter coffee, this Colombian is a great choice. I would buy this again just because of the smooth taste."
,,,,,Spicy sweetness!,"I've always been drawn to K-Cup varieties with out there names (Jet Fuel, Black Tiger) and distinctive flavors (Golden French Toast, Spicy Mayan Chocolate). This offering melds those two features into something I'm happy to wake up to!<br /><br />To me, Jamaica Me Crazy's definitely got a pervasive coconut taste fairly similar to Dunkin' Donuts coconut flavored coffee, but it's also got a lot of the flavor characteristics I've come to expect from K-Cup chocolate brews. Barely any of that acidic aftertaste that's almost inevitable with artificial flavors, and definitely not as watery as many other K-cup varieties. Sure, the name's pretty corny and the taste is hardly subtle or sophisticated, but that's what makes this cup of joe so fun!"
,,,,,my Pomeranian loves these treats!,"My Pomeranian loves these treats... he eats one every morning!  They do smell a little, but that is probably why he loves to eat them. I've ordered these many times and never had a problem with them being opened when they arrive."
,,,,,German Shepherd's Favorite,"My girl has loved these for two years.  When the local retail outlet, Trader Joes, no longer carried them-we found the manufacturer.  This is one of the few treats Wilhi Girl enjoys."
,,,,,Horrible packaging,"I purchased two of these and they arrived with the package split and the items all over the box. I contacted Amazon and they sent two more out, these also arrived with the packages open. Amazon was very courteous and professional as always, I cannot review the item itself because the packaging is so horrible that I have given up on trying again."
,,,,,"SORRY, NO GOOD!!!","SORRY, AS I STATED ON MY OTHER REVIEWS MY GERMAN BREED, G.SHEPH. IS VERY PICKY...AND HE JUST DID NOT CARE FOR THE SMELL OF THESE BEEF ROLLS, HE DID NOT EVEN CARE TO COME CLOSE TO TAKE 2ND SNIFF....SORRY, NO STAR!!! BUT IT TRIGGERED ME TO GIVE IT AS LEAST 1 STAR TO CONTINUE MY REVIEW."
,,,,,Terrific cassoulet,I purchased this cassoulet for my wife's birthday dinner. I never tried this brand of cassoulet before. It was delicious. The sausage was excellent. The duck was good. The general flavor was superb.
,,,,,My cats love this stuff..,"Excellent quality pet food with no inert ingredients, filler or potentially unhealthy meat by-products. I used to have to travel several zip codes away to buy it, and it was well worth the trip to give them food I was confident was of the highest quality. My cats can't get enough of it and the price is very competitive, especially if you are a Prime member.<br /><br />Still in doubt? Try this test:<br /><br />Open a can of your current cat food and smell it.. then compare that to any flavor of Merrick. It won't turn your stomach.<br /><br />When it says fish, there are huge chunks of -you guessed it- fish. Not a weird extruded-looking grey or stinky brown paste that you could mistake for what comes out the other end, but actual food in a can. Speaking of which, the post meal 'litter box stink' period is dramatically reduced as well, as is fecal volume. Less to clean :)<br /><br />Give it a try.. remember to mix it with your old food for a day to two to ease the transition, but your cats will thank you for it."
,,,,,My cats love Turducken!,"My cats are more enthusiastic about Turducken than just about any other cat food. They literally lick the plate clean. Even my LaPerm, who usually just gives me ""silent meows,"" manages to squeak out an audible meow when I start putting this on a plate.  The ingredients are much higher quality than many brands, too (no by-products, corn, etc.). I will be ordering more."
,,,,,strawberry  licorice,licorice  has  no  flavor very hard  to eat it was in a seal  bag  but  it  hard  not soft like other  licorice
,,,,,Better than most Douwe Egberts blends,"I like the Senseo coffee machine and believe that it can make very good coffee. However, I have been disappointed with the Senseo coffee pods that are made in Belgium by Douwe Egberts. The pods are not individually wrapped and the coffee often does not taste fresh. The pods also contain too little coffee which results in a weak, watery brew. The flavored Senseo French Vanilla Caramel Bistro Coffee Pods seem to me to be better than most Senseo blends that I have tried. In general, I prefer to buy pods from Timothy's World Coffee. The Timothy pods contain almost twice as much coffee as the Senseo pods and the resulting coffee is superior, in my view. I have found that the Timothy pods will work well in the Senseo machine if the pod is moistened and smoothed before latching the lid. I use the single pod holder and make a 4 ounce cup. If you must use the Senseo pods made by Douwe Egberts, try this blend."
,,,,,Senseo Coffee Pods,"Coffee pods used to be sold in Safeway and Target etc. stores in my area. In the last year the pods have not been stocked in favor of the new single brewer style K-Cup. While I can locate many sources on the internet I have found that quickest delivery at a reasonable price is buying Senseo from Amazon.<br />Mostly a French Vanilla drinker I find the taste is consistant, the packages keep fresh for months, (I typically buy 72 pods per order). The pods work very well in my Bunn 35400.0003 Coffee Maker Tea Brewer Single Serve Pourover. I wish every item I purchased was as easy reliable and quick as these coffee pods."
,,,,,Bland,"These pods are rather bland. I purchased them because I thought they would make a nice dessert coffee. They do not taste much different than regular coffee pods. I would not purchase them again, nor do I recommend them."
,,,,,Senseo Paris Coffee pods,I purchased these pods using Amazon's subscribe and save program for the first time this year.  The order was received promptly and the pods were fresh and very flavorful.  I have used this flavor coffee pods since January 2007 and have not been disappointed ever.  Hopefully I will be able to continue receiving them from Amazon.
,,,,,Senseo pods not easy to find,"Have a senseo coffee maker given to me a few years ago. For more than a year, could not find pods sold any more in local supermarkets - even at the big W. Just happened to come across them at Amazon & went on auto-ship every few months for additional savings. I have always liked the French vanilla so no problem there. Still like fresh brewed better but if you want a quick cup of coffee,these are perfect. I'm just happy that I did not jettison the coffee maker & will next look for the Sumatra pods, my other favorite."
,,,,,Senseo Paris French Vanilla Coffee Pods,I enjoy flavored coffees.  French Vanilla is a favorite.  I only wish Senseo would offer more flavor varieties. It would also be nice if a variety of flavored coffees could be sold as a pack of 6 (example 3 hazelnut and 3 French vanilla or 2 of 3 different varieties). These pods are easy to use and cheaper than area store prices.  It's more convenient to purchase online.  Not all stores carry pods for Senseo coffee makers.
,,,,,Delicious,"I just love the French Vanilla Coffee!  It is gives my day a great start! Easy to use, one cup at a time, with no waste!"
,,,,,"Great Product; hard to find,except at Amazon!","I love Senseo Paris!  It's easy, fast and great-tasting, with never that chemical aftertaste of so many of the French-vanilla coffees.  Amazon is the only place I can find it consistently...so I have it on the subscription plan!  Thanks Amazon and Senseo!"
,,,,,Awful smell and taste.,"This batch was horrible.  Since most regular coffee were out of stock, I tried this one.  It tastes and smells awful.  Do not buy this flavor."
,,,,,Awesome coffee!,"Just read the reviews that said it had a chemical taste - I totally disagree. I think it tastes wonderful! I guess its all a matter of personal preference. I love it so much, I cant go back to the regular unflavored coffee. The only thing that's too bad is that it's artificially flavored. I care not because of the taste, but because artificial flavors are probably not too good for me. But I love the taste anyway! Senseo could easily use natural vanilla flavoring, it is probably more expensive, but they should do it anyway to give their customers a better product. Unfortunately too many companies today use non-natural ingredients in the quest for larger profits, which is a sad commentary. Senseo, you need to start using natural vanilla flavor instead of artificial for the health of your customers.<br /><br />But I still love the taste and cant drink any other coffee! The Senseo coffee in general is so wonderful. I've gone through two machines already. The frothiness of Senseo coffee is so delightful...its like cappacino froth only better. I use Silk Vanilla creamer too which gives it an even better taste (their product DOES have the natural vanilla flavor so maybe that is helping with the taste.) Then I always top off my coffee with cinnamon sprinkles which makes it even more wonderful!<br /><br />All in all, a great coffee and coffee system, just please start using natural flavor Senseo, for the health of your customers! You would probably have even more customers if you did. :)"
,,,,,"Chemical aftertaste - thought it was the coffeemaker, but it was the coffee","Although it sounded delicious, I was very disappointed in this coffee. The coffee has a strange, chemical aftertaste ... cup after cup, not just once.  Even when it brews, it creates a chemical sort of aroma.  In fact, because our single-serve pod coffee brewer was new, I started thinking the problem was the brewer.  We assumed it was a left-over manufacturing plastic or metal aftertaste coming through in the water.  I even e-mailed the coffee machine maker (Bunn) to see how to remove the aftertaste.  Imagine our surprise when a month later we opened a new pack of pods (regular Colombian, not flavored) and were delighted that our machine makes great coffee.  When we made a cup of the Senseo Vanilla again -- back came the off-taste and aroma.  Perhaps it's the ""artificial flavors"" used?  Be forewarned!"
,,,,,great coffee!,Senseo Paris French is one of my favorite senseo coffee's always a great cup of coffee. Great price from Amazon!
,,,,,Amazon to the rescue for Senseo French Vanilla!,It's so easy to order our favorite coffee from Amazon.  We love the taste of the coffee and ease in brewing it.
,,,,,We Love It,We go through a lot of this flavor.  Love the Senseo machine and their customer service.  Love the ability to use different flavors of coffee and tea.  Everyone can have their favorite in seconds.  We just use a lot of the French Vanilla.
,,,,,Senseo Vanilla Coffee Pods,"Good taste, a little on the weak side especially since I mix it with half soy milk after it's brewed.  Delicious nonetheless."
,,,,,Love it!,Best coffee in the world.  I'm so glad I found it here because other stores had stopped carrying flavors-only regular.
,,,,,I think I got a bad batch,"The particular packages had an off taste. However, the seller gave me a complete refund and didn't even make me send them back. I have ordered this item before and they were fine."
,,,,,Great Vanilla flavor,"This is the third Senseo brand coffe pod I have tried and it is my absolute favorite. I have tried Vanilla flavored coffees from several major gourmet coffee dealers and to me this coffee has the best Vanilla taste of them all. It is great to use in a single-serve type brew system or in a small 4-5 cup brewer [which is what I use]. The pod makes cleaning the brew basket a breeze and yet there is sufficient amount of grounds to give a good strength to the brew. I don't like my coffee as strong as some, so if I want more coffee I leave the pod in and simply run a quick second brew cycle. If you like your coffee ""normal"" strength you would likely use a new pod for each cup brewed. Also, this coffee is available in a ""Subscribe and Ship Option"", which is a wonderful way of assuring yourself of plenty of coffee at hand when you want it; just choose the frequency of shipment and leave it to Amazon!"
,,,,,YUM,Great coffee.  We mix it with Godiva chocolate coffee or regular medium roast.  What a treat
,,,,,what happened?,"We have been purchasing this product for several months and have enjoyed it in the past, but this order is inferior.  Did the company change hands or outsource their production?"
,,,,,Absolutely DELICIOUS!,"The Senseo pod coffee maker is my favorite appliance and Paris French Vanilla Caramel Bistro Coffee pods are simply the perfect blend of richness and flavor.  The taste isn't overwhelming or subtle, but just right.  This is the perfect way to start your day!"
,,,,,good coffee for a good price,"Senseo pods are getting harder to find, especially the Paris, vanilla/caramel flavor. I am happy to find these on Amazon at a very good price, especially at the subscription price."
,,,,,Makes a good cup of coffee,"My wife has one of the one cup coffee makers.  I used to make fun of her for the one cup thing but you know; sometimes I only want one cup too! The Senseo pods have good flavor.  I'd rate them a 5 star but if you use only one pod the coffee is a little bit weak for my taste. In the stores I have to pay over $5 when I can find the French Vanilla.  Buying them on Amazon in the pack of 6 was much cheaper, especially with the automatic re-order discount."
,,,,,So glad to find Senseo Paris Coffee Pods!!,Phew!  Am I glad I found these Senseo Paris French Vanilla Caramel Bistro Coffee Pods!  All of my local stores either do not carry them anymore or are charging over $5 for one 16-count bag.  The 6 bag pack should easily cover the 3 month subscription time frame as I only use one pod a day.  The other great thing is that the package's expiration date is many months in the future so I know they are fresh!  I highly recommend subscribing to the automatic re-order system. Thank you Amazon.com!
,,,,,Simply the Best -- I order consistently & this subscription makes it easy!,"Senseo is my favorite coffee maker.  Of all the coffee pods I've tried from Senseo and other brands, I keep coming back to Paris.  It is consistently a delight.  I've had trouble finding it in the market because of popularity and now, flavored pods are becoming scarce.  No problem.  I have my subscription to back me up and make it easy.<br /><br />I love coffee, and I do not drink a lot of it.  So I want something that is a delight, and I want to be able to have a supply available so when I run out, I don't have to go on a hunting expedition to get it.  This plan is perfect for that need.  You can skip a shipment if need be, or increase your order.  It is flexible, more cost effect than the stores, and reliable in availability.<br /><br />What more could you want?"
,,,,,"great coffee, great price!",So far this has been a great way to order my favorite coffee.  It has become really hard to find it at the local stores but Amazon had it even cheaper than I previously paid for it.  It arrived very quickly and I am waiting any day now for the next shipment.
,,,,,Love Senseo!,"The Paris Bistro is my 2nd favorite flavor for Senseo.It's a nice, mild flavor that does well for a late afternoon pickemup. I've enjoyed Senseo in Europe for years on my visits there and waited till finally, it was available here. I get my regular Douwe Egberts coffee at a local European Deli, only one in the Dallas/Ft. Worth metroplex that carries it (Henks). I think Americans expect stronger flavors in their coffee than the Europeans. This is mildly flavored, just the right touch."
,,,,,smells and tastes funny,"Hi, coffee doesn't smell or taste great. I recommend Senseo Vienna. Still have packages of ""Paris"" and nobody wanna drink it. Guess I just have to throw it away."
,,,,,Best of the Best,I have tried other brands of French Vanilla coffee and this is the best.  Highly recommend it.
,,,,,"Nice, Quick Cup of Coffee",Nice flavor and great aroma while brewing.  Everyone is always jealous when I brew it at work.
,,,,,my new obsession,"if the house catches fire, I will grab my husband, amnimals and senseo.  I love the french vanilla coffee pods.  I use one pod and select the 2 cup option as I dont like strong coffee.  You will instantly fall in love with the foam that is on top of the coffee.  Use fat free/ carb free vanilla creamer and you have a mighty tasty cup of coffee!!!!"
,,,,,Senseo Paris French Vanilla Caramel Bistro Coffee Pods,"How many ways can you say ""YUM!"" ?  It's a delicious way to wake up in the morning--or to enjoy any time of the day."
,,,,,coffee pods,I love the coffee pods... And I love the fact that Amazon sells them in bulk.... Thanks...
,,,,,Senseo Coffee Pods,This is honestly the best coffee and the best deal anywhere.  Check out the local store prices on this wonderful coffee and you will know why amazon and senseo are so great together!
,,,,,"If you dont like ""black"" coffee...",This is really the way to go. Add some creamer to further enhance the flavor of this blend. I signed up for a subscription to have this delivered every month. I drink some every morning at work. Works great with the B&D Home Cafe system.
,,,,,Great tasting coffee.,The coffee I ordered is great.  If you want a sweet coffee this is for you.
,,,,,I'm Hooked,"We got our Senseo coffee maker through a promotion. I had always wanted to try it out. I purchased a variety of coffee pods and my husband and I tried them out. We have yet to be disappointed. We love it so much, we have told several people about the Senseo and they have gotten them as well. This is a wonderful product and we waste a lot less coffee using the pods instead of making a pot of coffee. In fact, I think we drink a lot more coffee we want to try all the varieties of the Senseo coffee pods. Pair the pods with The Barista Blend flavor packs, sit back and enjoy."
,,,,,senseo coffee pods,"The pods arrived fresh and quickly after ordering them.  By ordering the coffee through the subcription program they are a good value.  The flavor is good, slightly bitter after taste to this brand of coffee."
,,,,,Wonderful aroma - flavor needs to be stronger.,"Overall, this makes a great fast cup of coffee, especially if you are just going to add a flavored creamer or sweetener to it anyway.  I use two pods to make an 8oz cup of coffee and I am pleased overall with the strength."
,,,,,WILL BE RETURNING,They kept raising the price. The product was great and remained the same but they kept raising the price. This last order I have had enough and will be going back!
,,,,,Perfect for the non coffee snob,"I'm not a coffee snob, barely drinking a cup a week, but my significant other needs a strong mugful every morning.  The pods and the Senseo machine are perfect for this; barely takes 2-minutes to brew.  The 6-pack box comes out to about 30cents a cup even with the added latte packets (60cents when two are used for a strong mug serving).  Wonderful aroma and works well with the flavor packets.  I'm hoping the money saved by avoiding Starbucks every morning will go to my potato chip addiction...."
,,,,,good flavor but not strong enough,"This is my first purchase of Senseo coffee pods. The package coming with the coffee machine is unflavored, so I went online to buy this French vanilla from Amazon. Price was surely attractive with this bulk purchase. However, I am not totally satisfied with the flavor, comparing this with what I got from other coffee vendors (e.g. the cafeteria in my office building). This French vanilla from Senseo is good, but isn't strong enough. Anyway, I am satisfied with this combination of price and quality and I will try a different flavor next time."
,,,,,excellent flavor,"This is a great coffee with excellent flavor.  You can add an extra pod for a darker, more robust coffee.  The aroma fills the air as your cup is being filled."
,,,,,Love my Senseo,"I've been a huge fan of the Senseo coffee machine ever since I experienced one in France.  Upon returning home, I found one and have never looked back.  The Paris French Vanilla is my favorite, and I often receive comments from others that it smells like pancakes after I've brewed a cup.  Great stuff!"
,,,,,Senseo Paris French Vanilla Coffee Pods,it is a good coffee flavor. I get it every 3 months. it is great to not have to think about getting the coffee. It just comes to the door.
,,,,,Great Coffee,As usual the coffee for the Senseo coffee maker is outstanding.  The French Vanilla has the flavor I prefer over the others.
,,,,,For Real Coffee Drinkers,"I love these Coffee Pods! If you're into Heavy Cream, Heavy Sugar, Heavy Coco & foam in your coffee, you may not care. Smells wonderful, tastes even better. With the Senso Coffee Maker you can have a Cup of this great tasting coffee in about 1 Min. If you're into the above mentioned Fu Fu additives any coffee will do.<br />After this item being unavailable for a very long time, I assumed they had stopped making it. I was overjoyed to receive a notice from Amazon.com that it was again available, so I immediately placed my order. I was dissappointed to learn that I won't be receiving my order for a month. Oh well it's the Very Best, so if I must wait a month I WILL."
,,,,,Senseo coffee- French Vanilla Caramel,Excellent tasting.  Will have to remember to order some more later.<br /><br />YUMMO !!!
,,,,,great coffee!,I love this coffee and it is so convenient to have it shipped to me automatically!
,,,,,Disappointing,"If this was called ""Medium Roast"", I would give it 4 stars. It's a good coffee.<br /><br />But this is called French Vanilla Caramel, and this review is based on the product's name.<br /><br />Let me say that vanilla and caramel are perhaps my favorite flavors... coffee, ice cream, candy, you name it... if it's vanilla or caramel, I love it.<br /><br />With the exception of this.<br /><br />Where's the vanilla? Where's the caramel? And don't get me wrong: I'm not trying to say that the flavors are too mild. I'm saying that they are NON-EXISTENT. And therefore, based on the name, this coffee gets 1 star."
,,,,,Good but Folgers version is better.,"Good but Folgers version is significantly better tastewise and so far amazon doesn't carry it. Good price though, and I like the free shipping--which I'm not certain will last. Having a huge supply of these on hand makes it's hard to make coffee any other way though!! This is just sooo easy!"
,,,,,Senseo Paris Coffee Pods - easy route to good coffee,"So long as you have a pod type coffee machine, the Senseo Pods, in all their variations, make a good cup of coffee easily. If you drink one or two cups of coffee per day they are worth the price of the machine and the pods."
,,,,,old timey goodness,"this stuff is terrific!  it's been at least 20 years since i have seen damson plum, jelly or jam, in stores in my area. the taste of AMISH MADE damson plum jam was just as i remember.  it has a smooth texture and is sweet without being too sweet. i will order this brand again."
,,,,,Just OK,This jam has little fruit taste. If you love damson jam this is not the one for you. It could have been any flavor. All you taste is sweetness.
,,,,,Yummy,If you have not tried this combination you really should totally awesome flavor mix great on roast pork or to just dip pretzels in or put it over cream cheese and use crackers<br />Would buy again great service and got here sooner than expected
,,,,,GREAT!,"This is the second time I have ordered from them, and again, the service was wonderful!  I was impressed with how well everything was packaged, and also with how quickly I received my order.  I'll be ordering again from them!  Thank you!"
,,,,,my olvatine,I'VE BEEN BUYING OLVATINE FOR 16 YRS FOR MY 7 CHILDREN TO DRINK. I BUY THE MALT FLAVOR AND NOW THEY DON'T SELL IN ANY OF MY GROCERY STORES THAT I SHOP AT IN CHICAGO. WHERE CAN I BUY IT
,,,,,We want to purchase this product,"We love Ovaltine! We buy all of the flavors! We cannot find Ovaltine in the Malt flavor, anywhere! Can you help us?"
,,,,,The best baking powder you can buy.,"If you go to the Rumford web site, you will see this:<br /><br />""In 1859, Eben Norton Horsford (1818-1893), a co-founder of The Rumford Company, formulated and patented Rumford Baking Powder, the first calcium phosphate baking powder. [...] Rumford Baking Powder quickly became widely accepted since it achieved more dependable results and was less expensive than using crude formulas of cream of tartar and baking soda. The calcium acid phosphate in Rumford Baking Powder was also considered to be healthier than cream of tartar.""<br /><br />I had really disliked baking with regular baking powder since it was soapy and bitter tasting.  This powder has no such problems and it works great.  Also, it has no aluminum in it, unlike most commercial baking powders.  I discovered that many chefs and professional bakers use it, so I was happy to find a superior alternative to the regular, common baking powders on the market."
,,,,,"aluminum free, have used Rumford's for years","I couldn't find Rumford's at the grocery, just found brands with aluminum, but of course Amazon has it!  I have used this brand since I started cooking as a child at my parents' house."
,,,,,The only baking powder I will use.,"I learned to use Rumford from my Mother.  She could always taste the baking powder if another one was used.  Therefore, we never had Calumet in the house."
,,,,,Hardly a baking powder,"After a few uses, this powder spoilt a cake. It has lost its raising power. It is still well within the expiry date and the container has been kept closed and in a dry place. Avoid this one. I plan to ask for a refund."
,,,,,Stunned,"I love this product! BUT the downside is that I was overcharged. When I saw that the cost of this product was $10.00 I assumed that it meant $10.00 for a case. When I received only one can, I was stunned to say the least. A few days ago I happened upon this product at a grocery store. The 8.1 oz was $1.29. I am hereby requesting my change back!!!!!!  Rumford is one of the best baking powders presently on the market!!!  I like the fact that it's aluminum free.  Hence, I will be purchasing this product from the grocery store."
,,,,,Love ordering from Paella.com,"Excellent customer service.  I sent them an inquiry via email and they responded quickly, via email and followed up with a phone call as well.  Item received faster than expected!  I love ordering from paella.com!"
,,,,,"""Imported from Hong Kong""","I opened the box to find a huge mess of chocolate all over the tray. Chocolate was no better than Hershey's and worst of all, it is imported from Hong Kong. I don't care to eat food made in China after all their countless product safety issues. Look elsewhere"
,,,,,Stale old and inedible,"This is the first review I have ever done, but I could not let this one go bye. This was the worst ever, save your money."
,,,,,thank goodness for grainfree,"I have two cats, one who eats wet food as a last resort (mostly she licks up the gravy), and one who has food allergies (grains) and is incredibly picky (won't eat any grain free cat treats i've found so far--greenies, the tasty junk food ones, wellness cat jerky bits, shaved salmon, etc-- doesn't like catnip, and turns his nose up at anything that costs less than $1.29 a can it seems, to include spots stew; authority; organix; most flavors of avo-derm, holistic select, and innova; max cat; and natural choice).<br /><br />she still licks up the gravy, and eats about half her bowl. He eats his portion and finishes hers, with no vomiting or retching (so nice!). He also wakes me up in the morning if it's breakfast time and i haven't gotten the memo yet, and looks at me like i just kicked his grandma cat when i've run out.<br /><br />this has quite a bit of juice in it, which is good since most cats don't drink enough water anyway.<br /><br />as for me, i love this food b/c it doesn't smell to high heaven, and i haven't died from litterbox duty as of yet. ;) (get it? duty--dooty? hehe)"
,,,,,Good product...great price!,"This food looks just like something you would make for your pet at a Thanksgiving day dinner!  I was impressed with it when I opened the can, and my cats were when they ate it.  It contains nice size pieces of shredded turkey...not too big, making it easy for my kitties to eat.  They have gotten the Tiki cat chicken before and the long stringy pieces in that kept them busy for a little bit and they seemed kind of tough even for me when I would try to break them up.  Not this, I just spooned it into their bowls and they took over from there.  There is liquid around the sides of the food in the center, but the meat/vege mix in the middle is well packed.  I didn't feel like I was getting more liquid than food, like Halo foods so I was happy about that as well.  Plus, through amazon, this is a great price for this quality food."
,,,,,Best herbal tea for digestion,If you're new to this product you need to be very careful of dosage. It is strong. Some batches are stronger than others.
,,,,,"Good, effective product","Good flavor, unique in all the teas that I've tried.<br /><br />This tea is effective for cleansing one's system, but is not as harsh as a regular laxative.  It can be consumed daily or as needed"
,,,,,The Best Cleansing Tea I've Ever Had,I've used this brand for years. If you're feeling clogged up or ate a massive meal have a few sips of this tea.  If you're new to it make sure you're home because it can work a little too well if you know what I mean.  Just be careful the first couple of times using it and try little sips.  You'll see a result by morning or earlier if you follow it with lots of water.
,,,,,I am an adult & I STILL love this.,I always have this in my house. I drink it as is or my favorite is mix with sprite. Oh So Good!! I have some every day. I do not mind the larger bottles as I use so much of it. Bring it on!
,,,,,wrong size bottles,there is not much one can say about Hawaiian punch.  my kids love it.  the only r eason i took off 2 stars is that i ordered 8 64 oz bottles and received 4 128 oz bottles.  i need the smaller bottles so my kids can pour on their own.  i will have to revert to going to the supermarket for future Hawaiian  punch needs.
,,,,,Green tea,I love this green tea.  It is a good price for my use with my Tassimo machine.
,,,,,Most convenient and best tea around,My husband has acid reflex and this is the only hot drink that the doctor has recommend that he can drink.  Thank you Amazon for carrying this product.
,,,,,Awesome Good ol Green Tea,"I got this for my mom and she loved it. She just got a tea maker and with this 3 pack of 8 discs each, she is going to have a lot of tea. I shouldn't have gotton the awake tea for her because it was only 1 package with 7 discs because it is more expensive. Oh well, the thought that counts! Btw if you read this, please check out my seller profile and items i sell. I will star to sell stuff soon and once i talk with amazon i will let everyone choose super saver shipping. I am a true seller and give the customers what they wan't in perfect condition. Anyways, this tea is great and i reccomend this to everyone who loves tea."
,,,,,Great tasting Green Tea,"I really enjoyed this Green Tea, and I can't wait to try making it as a Green Tea Latte... I love my Tassimo machine :)"
,,,,,Great green tea,"This is the quickest way to make a darn good cup of green tea!  I was skeptical about having a cup of tea that wasn't brewed, but this is very close!"
,,,,,Better Tea,"For the last year, our Tassimo machine has made only tea, as all the coffees are greatly lacking. Instead we buy imported German coffees which are the best in the world.<br /><br />We use 3 Teas: #1, the Best is Twinings Earl Grey<br />  #2, next best is Twinings Green Tea<br />  #3, next best is Tazmo Awake Black Tea.<br /><br />These teas are all great & if you can get some good natural North Dakota honey to put in them, you will like them even more."
,,,,,tastes like tepid water,"I think I'm not a green tea drinker.  This is pretty awful tasting stuff.  Glad I bought just one bag, because I'm throwing it out."
,,,,,Diamond Head Bakery Soda Crackers,"In my opinion the best soda cracker on the planet, if you like or love crackers Diamond Bakery makes the tastiest cracker"
,,,,,Move over Mr. Standard Cheese Doodle!,"I have tried them all - from the top name brands to the baked cheese crisps that seem to have become the craze these days. These cheese puffs simply take the cake! Not only do the pack all the flavor and texture one would want, but they are packed with the vitamins and proteins one needs! Imagine that - a guilty treat like a cheese doodle is now a healthy alternative!"
,,,,,Disappointed,This huge bag of chocolates contained old (white and cracked) chocolates that were completely melted all over the inside of the bag!  Noone at work would even touch them since they looked so sad and gross... what a waste and disappointment!  Will be wary to ever purchase from this seller again
,,,,,Chili pickle,"This reminded me how much I enjoy Indian pickle.  It was basically good pickle.<br />Problems:<br />* it seemed a bit stale<br />* it was fairly pricey<br />But it did remind me that I really like Indian pickle, and told me that I could get it on the internet, so I poked around a bit and found a place (ishopindia.com) in another suburb of Chicago which was closer (Skokie; I live in Oak Park) so instead of it coming from Texas, it came from Skokie (less than an hour's drive away).  That solved the staleness problem.  Their prices seemed to be about 2/3 of Amazon's prices.  I thank Amazon for reminding me that I should look."
,,,,,Hot Stuff!,"Patak's Chilli Pickle<br />This is a seriously good pickle from Patak's, with lots of salty heat and endless chunky chilli pieces. I bought it to dip popadoms in, but finished the pot as an accompaniment to slow-cooked pork sausages, and it worked beautifully - certainly as well as a full-bodied English mustard.<br /><br />If you like a bit of heat, as well as plenty of flavour, you'll enjoy it."
,,,,,Keeps me in my Mother-in-law's good graces.,My Mother-in-law simply loves these candies.  She is on her fourth tub since Christmas. She prefers them over the Sunkist Fruit Gems  I hope they remain a stocked item.
,,,,,Soft and slightly chewy,Soft and slightly chewy candy is optimal (not gummy) to me and these are that. The flavors are good but not great. They are heavily coated with sugar to sweeten them up as they are not sweet without the sugar coating. I will purchase them again.
,,,,,WAYYYYYY TOO SWEET,"If you are looking for a sugar high, then these are what you are looking for. Too sweet for me and my family, I don't think we will be ordering these again."
,,,,,Best chili powder I ever tried!,"I had a recipe that called for a lot of dark chili powder and the only place I could find it was amazon.com.  I bought a jar of this and it made two batches of the chili recipe I have.  The chili was the best I'd ever made.  I can vouch that this chili powder really does make a big difference in the flavor of a chili.  It is rich with a bit of a kick.  Everyone has been crazy for it, and I think its due to this chili powder. I'm back to buy the bag this time!"
,,,,,Nutty Spice...,More iron than turmeric but this is a very nutty tasty spice that I mix with all other spices. This is one of the main ingredients in most Indian Curry Powders. Bravo.
,,,,,Straight from the coconut!,"Without a doubt, this is hands down the best coconut water product I've tried.  The others I've experienced have a flat or slightly bitter taste but this one has that subtle essence and sweetness of coconut water drank directly from a freshly opened raw coconut.  Let me tell you, this is the most refreshing, hydrating, and re-energizing elixir you can partake of.  I'll take this over Gatorade any day of the week.  Great way to start off any day."
,,,,,best,"best coco water - plz bring back.<br />i've been drinking it for the last 3-4 years and this ONE [only 1 liter pack] is really the best.<br />unfortunatley, the manf. seems to have discontinued it - what a shame!<br />the small size product is not at all good - only this one.<br />hope this company gets some common sense and continues this product which was so good.<br />-------------------<br />ONE large - 5 stars<br />ONE small - 2 stars<br />ONE kids - 1 star<br />ZICO - upsets stomach - 2 stars<br />VitaCoco - tastes awful - 1 star<br />Bluemonkey - 3 stars<br />AmyBrian - 4 stars<br />C2O - 2 stars<br />naked - 2 stars<br />nirvana - 2 stars"
,,,,,Refreshing and amazingly satisfying!,"We drink this coconut water every day in our house. It's become somewhat of an obsession. We used to have a subscription to the 12 pack of vitacoco and when that ran out we tried this instead. I like it better. It tastes cleaner though I can't describe what's different about it, I just feel better after drinking this than drinking the vitacoco. Coconut water in general has an odd taste to it but it's still really sweet and feels SO refreshing when you drink it. If I'm really hungry I drink this between meals and it's kind of like a protein shake or energy drink. It settles my stomach and gives me a fantastic burst of energy!"
,,,,,"A truly energizing, natural elixir!","I make coconut water a part of my daily regimen, whether I've exercised or not. It gives my body a much better - and healthier - boost than caffeine, and gives me an overall feeling of well-being. I recommend this to everyone, the only downside is one could go broke drinking a liter box every day like I've been doing."
,,,,,Review of Amazon-Shipping=2; But O.N.E. Drink = 5,"-- If you buy this from Amazon, you'll be disappointed at the shipping.  My box of 12 came in one cardboard box, with the 12 container-boxes loosely in a plastic bag.  One was smashed, so leaking into the bag, two were dented, and one was coming open from the bottom due to the puddle of leaking water in the bag. I opened the bag, and it smelled awful from the rancid, leaking water. If Amazon wants to continue selling the 12-pack-33oz, it needs to package the shipping better. [NOTE, however, I was able to Live-Chat with Amazon and get a refund, even though the item is a ""non-returnable grocery item"".]<br />-- AND, review of the drink:  The drink itself is SUPERIOR to the taste of Vita-Coca(""good"") or Zico(too sweet), so as a drink, the O.N.E, really IS like drinking from a real coconut out in the tropics.  I am going back to the individual single-serve containers of O.N.E., shipped from Amazon.<br />-- AND, In a second comparison, the multi-pack of Vita-Coca-33oz comes SUPERBLY packaged in the shipping box from Amazon (as EACH 33oz container is invidually protected in a cardboard sleeve).<br />-- Hope that helps (and, Thank you Amazon for letting me have a refund on the damaged box, but it will be more helpful if you can protect the boxes better for shipping it to us)."
,,,,,All-around refreshment.,"As I ordered a 12 pack of O.N.E. Coconut Water, I remember thinking ""Twelve? What on earth am I going to do with 12 of them?"".  An easy way to get potassium was what I was looking for, but when I took my first sip I was hooked!  Not only is this loaded with the potassium I needed for my nightly leg cramps, it has a mild, pleasant flavor. Talk about refreshing; I can't wait for summer now!  There is an instant cooling sensation, a pleasant, smooth mouth-feel, and a thirst quenching ability you wish a soda had.  I've tried other brands, but they come across as ""raw"" or harsh; for me O.N.E. is the V.S.O.P. of coconut waters (to me, that means the best).  My shipment arrived earlier than expected and was in perfect shape.  If you want electrolytes in a delicious, healthy form, this is your stuff. As far as my hesitancy on ordering a twelve pack... there'll be an order for another twelve pack arriving soon!"
,,,,,Closest in the market to the real thing,I come from that part of asian subcontinent named after the coconut tree.Coconut trees are in abundance and we use every part of the tree imaginable. when we want a refreshing drink we just pluck a tender coconut off the tree.  What i wanted to tell u is that I am a difficult nut to crack when it comes to coconut water. And I love the One.
,,,,,Best For Making Kefir,"I make Coconut Water Kefir with O.N.E. 100% Coconut Water.  I've tried using Zico brand.  I do not like to discredit any brand, but for some reason my coconut water kefir goes bad much too quickly when using Zico (sometimes within 1-2 days - should last 7 days).  I do not presume to know why.  The taste of Zico is not as good as O.N.E.  Maybe they overheat/process it?  O.N.E.'s package says it is ""gently pasteurized.""<br /><br />If you'd like more information on why Coconut Water Kefir is so great for you go to [...](No, I am not connected with Body Ecology.)<br /><br />If you'd like to learn how to make Coconut Water Kefir go to [..]<br /><br />There's also milk (cow's and goat's) kefir that are extremely good for you.  Kefirs are used all over the world for health and nutrition -- just not common in America ... go figure."
,,,,,ONE Coconut Water - Love / Hate Relationship,"My wife really loves O.N.E Coconut Water.  I thought via auto ship would be a great way not to have to go to the store every other day to get some.  I ordered 6 cases of 12 ea.  The first problem occurred when case number one was sent back as undeliverable.  I guess a San Diego address would be undeliverable in Kentucky.  Of the 5 remaining cases all of which did arrive but in not great condition.  All the cases were still sealed but 1 had 2 of the 33.8 ounce boxes split open and there were 3 other boxes in other cases that were stale (really had a rancid smell).  Therefore I cancelled the auto ship and have gone back to picking this up in the local supermarket.  Works out better, just more time consuming and heavier.  It would have been nice knowing that the cases were in fact pretty flimsy.  My wife still loves the product."
,,,,,Fabulous,If you Love coconut water this kind is the must have.....I am on auto ship and it arrives on time and packaged to perfection to prevent damage.....
,,,,,O.N.E.  coconut water,"We love coconut water.....some brands are really ICKY....Zola sold at Von's/Safeway is really awful:  sweet and sickening, made from concentrate.<br /><br />O.N.E. is a very good tasting product though ZICO is always my first choice, but has a history of being 'out of stock'.  So it is often a case of purchasing O.N.E. 'cause ZICO is unavailable.  O.N.E. ships well, I've never had one arrive leaking (as I have often with ZICO)."
,,,,,O.N.E. awful experience,"First off, I didn't purchase this product through Amazon, but at a local grocery store, so my review only reflects the product itself, not Amazon in any way.  I bought this last week never having tried coconut water before, but I heard good things.  The taste of it was almost like the smell of lawn clippings that had been damp and out in the sun for a long time.  Tasted off and had a faint mold smell to it.  I didn't know if it was supposed to taste like that or not as I never tried it before, but paying as much as I did I felt obligated to finish it off.  I've been ill for about a week after drinking it.  I don't know if it was just a coincidence or the cause of it.  I did email customer service at O.N.E. the day I drank it asking if it was supposed to taste like that or if I got a bad batch, and they still haven't replied to me."
,,,,,Coconut Water is amazing... this particular batch is not perfect,"Coconut water and its many benefits are nothing short of phenomenal and I personally was so excited to have an opportunity to purchase in bulk.<br /><br />What isnt phenomenal is that every single box in my 2 shipments must have experienced some temperature changes, or, they were discounted because<br />of a faulty snap-closure.  At any rate, almost every single carton either came with the lid broken off (adhesive gave out) or it eventually breaks off.<br />Not such a big deal, unless I want to take a carton with me."
,,,,,Coconut Water,"I was buying this product and others like it in the 11.5 boxes but it saves a lot of money to purchase it in the 1 liter packages.  The taste is great and the product was very fresh with a good shelf life.  Since I have a Prime Account, I received package in just 2 days and with free shipping.  GREAT DEAL if you like coconut water like I do."
,,,,,Rating average of 5 and 1,"I love the coconut water - light and refreshing, packed with potassium. I was guzzling it down like, well, water, daily. I don't really enjoy plain water a lot of the time, but this provided refreshment, hydration, and flavor without a lot of the junk and/or calories that other drinks come with. 5 stars.<br /><br />I was looking forward to continuing buying it and consuming it regularly with subscribe and save. However....<br /><br />Price, specifically change in price, is terrible. 1 star. I cannot say more."
,,,,,Do not buy this product from this seller,"People watch out if you are buying this product online. I've ordered 12 bottles of the O.N.E, I was expecting this to be same as what I bought from store but this seller disappointed me, The bottles have the seal broken and the taste of the coconut water is not what I expected, I'm sure that this seller/ the person who packaged the bottles added water by breaking the seal. I've wasted my money on this product, I'll never buy this online for a few bucks cheap rather than go to the nearby store and buy it.<br /><br />my rating for this product is 0/5.<br /><br />In short, Seal broken, Diluted and Not comparable with the one that I bought from store."
,,,,,"The best, but not in price","I've tried several brands and this is true to the taste of fresh coconut water, though slightly more dilute.  The ""wholesale"" price here doesn't make much sense to me.  It's about $5.75 per liter in an 12 pack.  I get it for $4.99 at Publix.  The only disadvantage is that they only have maybe 4 or 5 at a time, but I'm one of few buying it and I sweep the shelves of it (LOL).<br />  I'm 37 weeks pregnant and this helps decrease the swelling in my legs and keeps me well hydrated.  I don't experience any leg cramps like I did during my first pregnancy.  I think the potassium makes a huge difference.  And with a tendency towards gestational diabetes, the low sugar content vs. other sports drinks is a huge advantage.  They should market this directly to pregnant women with diabetes (with no renal issues)."
,,,,,Extremely dissapointed,"Hi,<br />I am very disappointed with the past shipment I received of the ONE coconut water. 3 of the boxes were leaking and the coconut water was spoiled.<br /><br />Thanks.<br /><br />Laks"
,,,,,O.N.E. Coconut Water,"I love this product. I wanted something healthy and good tasting that didn't have added sugar or chemical sweeteners as an alternate to water. This is it. I like this coconut water better than others I have tried. It isn't as sweet as the Amy & Brian brand, which I prefer. I do not use sugar so I found this brand to be the best. The taste has also been consistent since starting my use of this in April. I have purchased four cases since June 2012. It also has a lot of health benefits."
,,,,,Great Product,Best coconut water I've tasted - and I've tried plenty of other brands! It's a must buy if you like coconut water!
,,,,,I HATE coconut BUT,"This was not bad at all. I had a bad experience with VitaCoco acai and pomegranate and it was horrible!!! It had that strong coconut flavor that I do not like. I had already bought this so I was nervous to try it. I was surprised when it barely tasted like coconut. It doesn't have that typical strong coconut taste. I usually stay away from anything coconut. Candy, food, beverages, etc. For some reason it gets me sick. But I wanted to try this, because I heard coconut water is good for you. I already tried the mango, pineapple, and pink guava flavors. They are delicious. Pink guava is my favorite. O.N.E. brand is my favorite. As long as I don't really taste that strong coconut flavor, then I will keep drinking this."
,,,,,O.N.E. Coconut water!!!!!,This is the BEST coconut water!!!!!  Can't get enough  : )  It has such a smooth and pleasing taste! Vita Coco is another wonderful product!
,,,,,The Best coconut water you'll have,"If you drink coconut water, this is the best commercial one.  No doubt.  Consistently good and if you decide to subscribe that is even a better deal!"
,,,,,love the water hate the price!,I get these for $4.34 at my local health food store - their price sucks!  It is one of the best tasting coconut waters around though!
,,,,,"O.N.E Coconut Water, 33.8 Ounce Boxes (Pack of 12)",This is a new package of O.N.E coconut water. The taste is completely different from previous packages.  It tastes like real coconut water from a coconut tree.
,,,,,Sweet and natural tasting,"I have tried three brands of coconut water and this is my favorite.  It is sweet, but naturally so.  Unfortunately the price is a bit high for me.  If it becomes available as a subscription and/or the price lowers, I will switch back to it.  I tried Zico and found it to be a bit sour and bitter for my taste.  I am using Roland cans now.  It is not as healthy as it has sugar and water added, but I love the coconut bits and the taste is good and the price is right."
,,,,,o n e coconut,"for everybody's information, o n e coconut water is made in the philippines..not brazil as claimed.. it was only a brazilian who  developed the business but the coconuts came from the philippines..<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000LL0R8I"">Vita Coco 100% Pure Coconut Water, 11.1-Ounce Containers (Pack of 12)</a>"
,,,,,never got it,"Due to a failure in the packing of this item, it was returned before even getting here. I strongly recommend that the packing department does a better job, because i ordered it again and this time one of the boxes was damaged. Apart from all that, the product is great."
,,,,,"HORRIBLE TASTING, Unnaturally Formed Chip","I bought these for my vegan father who LOVES the curry kale chips by Rhythm Superfoods (my 22 month old daughter, husband and I also like them)!<br /><br />Thought I would give him a new kale chip flavor--BBQ--as part of his Christmas gift. Although a different brand than we typically eat, they sounded good. First, I was disappointed to see these chips are not kale in its natural curly form but pressed into round, dog-snack-looking discs. Luckily I tried them before giving them. I spit it right out! Was it just me? My husband also tried one and couldn't finish even one chip.<br /><br />I have a pack of 4 that cannot be returned... what a waste of food and money!"
,,,,,I Still Like It Despite The Problems.....,"As another reviewer noted when you heat this product in the microwave, you MUST keep an eye on it.  It tips; it pops and eventually spills all over.  However, if you keep an eye on this product, stirring it every 20-30 seconds of the 2-3 minute heating period, you can avoid the spilling and tipping, ect.  Also the noodles do puddle at the bottom once you complete the soup but I usually keep a spoon nearby so I can at least finish the soup and not waste it.  Simple fact of gravity I guess but even stiring frequently can't seem to prevent this from occurring.<br /><br />Despite these problems, I give this product 5 stars.  I do this because it is more a convenience than a nuisance.  With lower sodium than the regular type of soup (this product is still 730mg of sodium, 30% of the recommended daily value) and an easy to go container make it a good to go snack.  Comparing the price per each on Amazon vs. a local store finds it much cheaper here on Amazon.  I recommend this product but ask you head my suggestions to avoid the problems that appear to affect others too."
,,,,,"Taste good, low cal","These are good and low calorie. I keep them in my office for when i want a light lunch. I don't noticed that they are low sodium, but i don't eat a lot of sodium anyway, so it may taste different to someone else."
,,,,,Pasty noodle mash at the end of serving,"Every time I heated this particular soup in any microwave, the container made a popping sound and popped up off the turning tray, fell over, and spilled out. If you can catch it before it spills over completely, you will find when eating that the noodles all gravitate to the bottom and you are left with a very untasty, pasty noodle mash at the end of the serving."
,,,,,Where are you Stride Fruit Gum?,it is too bad that I can't find this product locally any longer.  It was a favorite in our household.  Now my source is Amazon and I'm just as happy with that as I was before.  It has a great flavor that is long lasting.
,,,,,Forever Fruit is my forever favorite,"After trying different citrusy flavors of gum (including Orbit Citrus Mint, Orbit Sangria Fresca, Orbit Fabulous Frutini, Extra Fruit Sensations Island Cooler, Trident Tropical Twist, and Stride Always Mandarin), I have concluded that Stride Forever Fruit takes the crown.<br /><br />There is a real burst of flavor (and natural-tasting sweetness) as you pop a piece in your mouth, and although it doesn't last ""forever,"" it definitely holds its own against each of the flavors mentioned above.<br /><br />Feel free to conduct your own taste test to find your own favorite, but I suggest you take my suggestion to try Stride Forever Fruit.  Who knows...you may realize that you won't even want to try any others!"
,,,,,Very tasty gum!!,Arrived very speedy and the gum has an excellent flavor!! This is a gum chewer's gum.
,,,,,Good Fruity Gum,"This is a good gum to chew if you are looking to switch from sugared to sugarless gum. It's sweet, and doesn't have a strong aspartame taste, for being sugar-free. It doesn't last 'forever' like the commercials and 'Forever Fruit' name would lead you to believe, but the flavor lasts longer than a lot of sugarless gums, and it has a nice kick of flavor when you first bite in. Everyone in my family likes this flavor of Stride.<br /><br />Don't confuse this with the darker-but-similar-colored-packaging 'Mandarin' flavor."
,,,,,If you have a brown thumb . . .,". . . like me, you can still enjoy the delicate beauty of bonsai. Carefully preserved, these are real bonsai preserved in suspended animation. They need no feeding, pruning, watering or plant care, merely cosmetic care. For those of us who don't have the time, patience or skill to cultivate plants, these make a nice surrogate, and they make nice gifts, too. Preserved bonsai can reach into the hundreds of dollars. This one is double-trunked, reasonably priced, and very attractive."
,,,,,Great little trees!,"I ordered two....The Monterey - Double Trunk-Preserved Bonsai Tree &  The Artificial Aralia Bonsai Tree.<br /><br />Both trees came packed so as to not move around in the box.<br />They spray foam around the base and let it cure in the box. It creates a very stable platform.<br />The trees are absoulutely gorgeous!!!!<br />They look very close to the pics they show here.<br />Since they are hand made, each will look slightly different, but nothing that detracts from their overall beauty.<br />By the way, Bonsai-Boy does not manufacture these.<br />They are jobbed out to artisans in other parts of the country, hence the wait of at least 14 days to get your item(s.<br />They are truly works of art and I'd recomend these to anyone who has a love of these trees, but like me, does not have a green thumb.<br />The communicaton with Bonsai-boy is good and they endevor to answer any question you have.<br />Did I mention how beautiful these are? LOL!"
,,,,,Bonsai Packaging,"We have purchased two trees and both were gifts.  The first tree was thoroughly packaged with some type of foam insulation totally surrounding the tree. Impressive. Excellent condition!  The second tree came with no insulation but with a cord attaching the tree to the bottom of the box.  A couple of small limbs were broken off.  It is much better packaging with the foam insulation.<br /><br />The gift was ""assumed"" by the recipiant to be artificial (fake), which in this case was not a good thing.  The gift tree was actually preserved.  It would create a much better packaging if the tree came with a certificate stating the type - live, preserved or artificial.<br /><br />Love the trees!  They made excellent gifts."
,,,,,Absolutely Beautiful,"My wife and I ordered this product for her bosses birthday.  We received it quickly, but we did pay extra for the shipping, but we were in a hurry.  The product we received was in perfect condition and Absolutely Beautiful!  I hardly ever write reviews, but this one was worth the time.  I love Bonsai trees and will definitely buy another one just like this for myself in the near future.  This is a product that can be admired for many years to come."
,,,,,Nice product with minor flaws,"Been looking for a nice preserved Bonsai for a friend who can kill grass and this seemed like a great solution.  Shipping took a little longer than I expected, but I guess I am spoiled with Prime.  Packaging was interesting with the bowl 'cemented' into the box with spray foam.  Definitely held the piece solidly, but I almost damaged it getting it loose.  Be prepared to literally cut it out of its packaging.  A pain, but manageable.<br /><br />The piece itself was fairly well done, definitely not as good as the one in the illustration, but still a nice piece.  I will probably do some light trimming to give it a little more character before presenting to my friend.  The bowl and stone are nicely matched and the tuft of moss is a nice touch."
,,,,,Beautiful Tree!,"This makes for a great centerpiece on a dining room/coffee table as well as a great conversation piece!  I have to convince friends that this isn't a real live Bonsai tree when they see it.  It's very convincing, which is to be expected considering that this is just a real tree that's been preserved.<br /><br />My tree doesn't have the look of the picture, and the branches are much more bushy/wild, but it still looks fantastic.  I could always trim it if I wanted to make it more sparse but I like it how it is.  The moss is a nice touch, and the pebbles look great and are glued in so they won't fall out.<br /><br />Overall, I'm very pleased with my purchase!"
,,,,,Fondarific Fondant,"I bought this fondant to use with young teen girls who had no experience with fondant.  We used gel colors to make several different colors, and the gel colors worked beautifully with this fondant.  We didn't need the expensive cake decorator colors to get gorgeous results.  The other thing I liked was this fondant was not hard to work with.  If you can work with playdoh, then you can work with this fondant.  AND it tasted good, too!  I have tasted other fondants and it looks pretty, but you peel it off before you eat your cake.  With this fondant you will actually want to eat it as well as look at it.  This is a good choice for cooks who like their creations to look and taste good."
,,,,,Not as good as I initially thought,"Love this stuff, very easy to work with and reasonably priced if you can manage to buy it through Amazon with thier subscribe and save program, otherwise it is pretty expensive and you are better off making your own MMF. The Wilton stuff is like rubber and hard to roll out thin enough. I had no trouble with this. It also was not too sticky which was the problem I ran into when I used the Duff product from Michaels. So far this is the best fondant I have used. It really doesn't dry out so if you want your pieces to stiffen up quickly or become completely hard you will need to mix in gumtex, tylose or gumpaste to accomplish that. I love the taste of this fondant too, I don't usually like fondant icings but this one is really good! The white is truely white too, not cream or antique at all so you can easily mix in other colors to tint the color you want.<br /><br />UPDATE 1/6/12<br />Lowering my stars from 5 to 3...<br />My first few batches of Fondarific were great, easy to work with, good taste, nice consistency etc. I use alot of fondant and have pretty much used every brand out there plus made my own. I was totally sold on Fondarific until my last couple of orders. I didn't feel like dying fondant so I purchased the colored Fondarific for the first time(Pink and Red) so I'm not sure if that was the problem but they were REALLY soft. Like another reviewer I ended spending an extra 3 hours or so to cover my cake and decorate it because I had to keep putting the stuff in the freezer and it tore and bubbled all over the place. It was ridiculous like working with melting taffy. I live in Washington state and it was October so humidity was definitely not the problem. My last batch of white was workable but also stickier than usual so pieces kept sticking to the mat (even with cornstarch or shortening). So far both batches of black that I purchased were great and didn't have these issues. I have to agree with other reviewers here that the consistancy is lacking with this product. If you get a good batch it is the BEST stuff out there but you have to cross your fingers and hope luck is with you. I may give them one more shot since my first few orders of white were perfect but I will probably also make some marshmellow fondant just in case they aren't up to snuff."
,,,,,great fondant!!,"I have worked with a couple different types of fondants, wilton, fonderific and satin ice. I must say, sorry wilton but you have terrible fondant. Terrible! Anyway, fonderific is great, its soft, stays soft, tasty, easy to work with. I always have a tub just incase I run out of my main fondant. If your looking for a starter fondant fonderific is great! Enjoy cakers!!"
,,,,,Great,I thought this fondant was very easy to work with and it tasted great! Also the wedding cake i used this product for turned out awesome and the bride and groom and their guest loved their cake!
,,,,,Fondarific Buttercream Fondant,"Amazing fondant from Fondarific.  So very convenient to get it through Amazon! Easy to use, nice taste and would definitely recommend it for anyone with a passion for cake decorating."
,,,,,only for small cakes,"This product worked well for small cakes.  It also tasted great.  For any cakes over 12 inches, it just would pull until their was a hole in it.  It is almost too soft a product."
,,,,,Tastes great but that's about it.,"This fondant tastes good but does not work well for decorating cupcakes. It's very soft and the more you mix in color, the softer it becomes. I added powdered sugar to help make it not stick to my mat, cookie cutters and tools, but it was a constant battle. My major complaint with this fondant is that it doesn't harden. I made decorations 3 days in advance (which I've done in the past using Wilton fondant) and they weren't drying. The morning I needed them, they were so soft that even picking them up distorted the shape. I ended up having to place a high powered fan in front of them while I went to work for 8 hours, only to come home to semi-dry decorations. Because I have a ton left over, I'm going to try and mix gum paste with it to see if that helps with the stickiness and drying time. I do not recommend this product if you're trying to create flowers, stars or any type of decoration that requires tools and drying time. Needless to say, I will not be buying this product again."
,,,,,Taste Great!,This fondant taste great and is easy to work with.  Easy to roll out and takes very little kneading to make it pliable to work with.
,,,,,Fondarific is the Best,"As always, Fondarific is awesome! Covers cakes wonderfully and it's so easy to use! Love it, and will continue to use it forever!"
,,,,,Fantastic!,"This is EXTREMELY better than Wilton!!!  Buy this and never use that nasty stuff again.  This is actually edible, unlike products and is very easy to work with."
,,,,,Yummy! Very tasty and easy to work with.,"I've tried Wilton's fondant before, which tasted horrible and wasn't that easy to work with. Fondarific fondant is amazing! It takes color very nicely, I use Wilton's gel colors, and is very easy to work with. It's a little hard when you take it out of the container, but I just pop it in the microwave for 10seconds and it becomes soft enough for me to work with.<br />This fondant tastes soooo good! Like cotton candy. Delicious!!<br />I made a 3 tier birthday cake using this stuff and I still have some fondant left over.<br />My tiers were 10"", 8"" and 6"". The first two tiers were 4"" tall and the 6"" tier was 8"" tall. I also used this for decorations.<br />Everyone at the party loved it!"
,,,,,I really wanted to like this fondant!,"I did a lot of research on this fondant and really wanted to like it however it just didn't work for me. When it arrived it was hard as a rock, but there is a card inside that indicates about 30-50 seconds in the microwave will make it easier to work with. This really did work well. It made it much more pliable and easier to work with. The fondant took color real well and rolled out nicely. It does say ""no shortening or powdered sugar needed"" that's pretty false. If you're coloring it you do need some while needing otherwise it will stick to your hands and your work surface. I DEFINITELY needed powdered sugar while rolling it out. Otherwise it stuck to the silicon mat I use. Also, after coloring and putting it in the microwave it definitely needed some time in the refrigerator before it could be rolled again and placed on the cake. Otherwise it was far too gooey.<br /><br />Finally, the moment of truth arrived, laying the rolled out fondant on the cake. It was much more difficult to work with than I imagined. It's very picky on the thickness. Too thick it's impossible to lay flat, too thin and it would stretch and get holes. I will say it did get some 'elephant skin' during application I was able to smooth it out using a smoothing tool and the final product looked fine. Perhaps I was a little bit rusty, I used to teach a Wilton cake decorating class and have taught fondant decorating for many years but haven't done a cake in the past 5-6 years. I just never remember the wilton brand, which tastes horrible, ever being this hard to work with.<br /><br />The flavor was fine on it's own, but as most fondants, it's incredibly sweet..incredibly. Despite the improved flavor people were still pealing it off the cake and eating the cake and frosting.<br /><br />In the end the cake looked wonderful and people were pleased but not sure I'll be using this brand again."
,,,,,fantastic fondarific,i usually make my own fondant but decided to give this one a try.it was an absolute pleasure working with fondarific wedding white.since its cold here at the moment the fondant arrived stone hard so i had to break some apart with a knife and heat in the microwave for ten seconds after which it was great working with it.im not a professorial and i have to say that this fondant was very easy to roll out and cover a two tiered cake.
,,,,,Best Fondant,I purchased this fondant for a wedding cake that I was making.  I have tried numerous brands and even made my own fondant.  This Fondarific fondant is easy to work with.  I am an amateur baker and will purchase this product again.
,,,,,"Generally a good product, but quality is NOT consistent","I have ordered many tubs of fondarific in many colors, and generally don't have many problems. If you are looking for a fondant to sculpt figurines out of, this is not the fondant for you. It is, however, the best tasting fondant you will find, guaranteed. It does not dry out which is lovely for covering cakes, but is the reason sculpting is impossible.<br /><br />This last time I ordered a five pound bucket in wedding white, it was horrible. It was so soft it was almost gooey. I had my AC at 65 degrees, placed it in the freezer for awhile, and it was still stretchy and soft as if I had been kneading it forever. I even added some gumpaste and a ton of tylose to try to stiffen it a little, to no avail.<br /><br />I was in a bind and had no time to get or make more fondant, so my cake took 3 times as long as it would have, and it looked horrible. I was very disappointed.<br /><br />I guess I just got a bad batch this time. I would suggest that you order ahead of time and check it first so you don't get stuck like I did."
,,,,,Easy breezy!,I used this fondant to create dice to add to cupcakes for a Bunko for the Cure fundraiser.  They came out awesome and were a huge hit!  The fondant color was bright white and worked great with the Wilton food markers (for the dots on the dice).  This fondant is so incredibly easy to work with and it tasted delicious.  Even the non-fondant lovers in the crowd (including me) loved the taste! I look forward to using this product again....and again....and again!
,,,,,Pastry chef standards,My order was on time and packaged correctly.  Bought this for my daughter who is a pastry chef and loves fondarific.  Price is great for a 5lb tub.
,,,,,Easy to use,This was my first time using Fondarific and fondant in general. This one was really easy to use for a baby shower cake. It worked just as indicated. I also colored it and made a two tier cake (baby blue and white). the final product looked great not greasy.
,,,,,This is the first review I have ever written...,"...so you know I am serious. I would give it a 0, were it an option. I love Amazon - they have never let me down, so I am hoping they come through for me when I file a claim with them.<br /><br />The product was rock hard, so I followed the enclosed instructions and heated it even less than the recommended time in the microwave. It kneaded easily enough and smelled/ tasted good. When it came to rolling, I could tell immediately that this was going to be a challenge. Sure enough, it tore all over the place. Redo. I used cornstarch, the way I was taught, and it still stuck to every surface as if it were too warm or wet, yet cracked as if it were too dry. Nothing made it cooperate, so I lowered my standards and draped it anyway. Durring the two-foot trip from the rolling surface to the cake, it ripped in several places and the application to the cake ended in absolute disaster. No, I did not roll it too thin. Yes, I used cornstarch (even though the packaging specifically claims it is unnecessary.) It sucks. The end."
,,,,,Gummy mess,"This product was so easy to work with.  On 6/23/12 I made a little over 100 flowers for wedding cupcakes, the following day I did the same using a different color of Satin Ice. The flowers of both fondants were firm, I stored them in an air tight container. On 7/2/12 I opened the container of flower made with the Fondarific and they were soft.  The flowers made from Satin Ice were perfect. I left the container of Fondarific flowers open over night to see if they would harden up again, they turned out ""gummy"", you know, like chewed gum, which is probably less sticky than this mess.  I am so dissappointed in this product.  Fortunately I made my flowers early, I have time to purchase Satin Ice and make 100 more flowers.  I do not recommend this product."
,,,,,Very Dissapointing,"I was very dissapointed with this fondant. I decided to try it for the first time, and that was a mistake. They claim that the fondant can be rolled out thinner then most brands, so you can use less to decorate more. That is not true. Even just rolling it out to 1/8in it tends to tear. Once I finally got it on the cake to cover, it is very hard to smooth it around the cake. It is very sticky, the fondant smoother does not glide smoothly over it. All in all I will never buy this brand again, I am going to stick with Wilton."
,,,,,Old batch?,"Fondarific usually has glowing reviews... everyone on the cake forums seems to love it.  My batch was either old or just crap.  Very disappointing.  Will go back to making marshmallow fondant.... cheaper and WAY easier to work with.  Also bought the black but didn't open it because the white was such crap.  Had to use it because I ran out of time to make MMF for the cake I was making... DUE TO THE FACT THAT I PRE-PURCHASED fondant to use.<br /><br />I love working with Fondant, and thought that maybe I'd use something easier this time, but it wasn't.  Good luck with this.<br /><br />Taste however, was quite good."
,,,,,"HARD AS CONCRETE, IS THIS HOW IT SHOULD BE? I don't think so!","MY Fondarific Buttercream Wedding White Fondant, 5-Pounds IS as hard as concrete!!!!!!! I just received this today, I can't use it, obviously, I have a wedding on Saturday, what should I do? HELP! This a non return item, what should a customer do?"
,,,,,Checked off my bucket list,"When I first heard of Kopi Luwak coffee I was horrified, but then the idea grew on me and I decided I really wanted to try it, so on my bucket list it went.  To purchase this same package directly from the producer is nearly twice the price.  There's not really 16 servings per package, maybe half that.  It is pretty amazing coffee and I'm thrilled I tried it.  Remember when shopping for Kopi Luak coffe make sure you're getting 100% civit coffee and not a blend which can have as little at 1 or 2% Kopi Luwak coffee.  Check out realkopiluwak.com for info on how civit coffee is produced and how to brew the perfect cup."
,,,,,"Another item off the ""bucket list""","After doing a TON of research and reading about Civet coffee- I finally broke down and purchased this for my birthday, just to give it a shot. At first, I was not impressed- thinking that I just overpaid for some upgraded Folgers- but then I figured it out. The secret to this coffee is making it in smaller batches- At first I was making 4-5 cups at a time in my small coffee pot- then I cut that back to a two cup using approx. 3 tablespoons of freshly ground coffee- It was AMAZING!!! The depth and natural sweetness of this coffee were unbelievable. Definitely something worth trying at least once- I for one will be looking forward to the next time I can justify purchasing this special occasion coffee..."
,,,,,No problems from same batch,"I thought that I should post a review in response to bad cat.  We ordered off the same batch for the same holiday reasons and had no illl effects.  The coffee was great.  There was no tart aftertaste no matter how strong you brew it.  The only reason that I gave it only four stars is that I would personally of liked a litter darker roast.  I just wanted to say that we drank off the same lot as bad cat, in the same year, Christmas Eve and Christmas, with zero headaches or ill tidings.  It just might have been something else."
,,,,,"Good beans, OK price","If you want 100% Kopi Luwak, this is a good method to acquire some in a relatively cheap manner. It's not as good as some of the stuff I've had, but it's definitely in that special class that Kopi Luwak belongs in. I've served this for guest, given it as gifts, and enjoyed it on special occasions. I've made it in French press, drip, and in one special instance Espresso!<br /><br />To truly enjoy it, use about 8 grams of beans per 7 ounces of hot water used to brew. This is the appropriate ratios. Serve black, no cream or sugar as this will ruin your treat. This bean isn't for everyone, but don't worry! It's not an acquired taste, its just a different taste :-)<br /><br />Product arrived fast thank to prime, fresh as I wanted, and the beans tasted just like they do when I buy them locally from Rao's Bakery here in TX (same beans same company)."
,,,,,Kopi Luwak,This coffee is smooth.  The best coffee ever.  It is pricey so I will not be buying it that often.  But worth every penny.
,,,,,Stale beans,"I was excited to see that Amazon is selling 100% Kopi Luwak. However, these beans were a huge disappointment because they had no aroma and flavor at all. I'm guessing that they sent stale beans because there was no roast date printed on the bag."
,,,,,Bad  cat beans,"I bought this to take a check mark off of the bucket list, but my wife and I had a cup of this and both of us immediately got sick with a headache and vomiting profusly. What made it worse it's Christmas and this day is shot now. We're coming through it but I'm sorry to say but my bucket list was almost over before it got started. Try if you want but it's made us sick and almost in the hospital. This is a Christmas I'd like to forget."
,,,,,coffee,"I wanted to try this coffee once in my life. I was very happy with the company that mailed it, and the timely manner in which they sent it."
,,,,,"Great service, Great product!!","I was thrilled to find a source for smoked paprika - this product is the ""REAL"" thing - wonderful, smokey flavor.  Also, speedy service.  I will be using this website for all my gourmet spices!"
,,,,,Seasonings,Excellent product! good price  fast shipping . needs an insert in lid to seal container better!
,,,,,Great product!!!,"I live in a small city in Illinois and it is very hard to find certain products. I was so pleased to see this product. I watch so many programs on the food network..Neely's being one. I wanted this product to make their rub. When it arrived..quickly I may add..you could smell the powerful scent through the package. It was wonderful..strong aroma,color and flavor..This is the perfect product in a perfect size. I once found a small bottle in a specialty store and paid almost 8 dollars for 4oz...I'm not sure how many ounces is in this 6 inch bottle, but it is way more than 4oz.. I also got a great deal on the shipping..I paid 7.95 for the first item and the rest was shipped free...can't beat that! I love this product!!!"
,,,,,Jar not sealed,There was no seal of any kind on jar. Cap had loosened slightly and some of the paprika had spilled out. Would not chance using an open jar so in the trash it went.
,,,,,Superb paprika. Great for the Barbecue.  Do you know the origin of the word Barbecue?,"Wonderful seasoning for the barbecue ""rub"" on chicken, meats, etc. Smoky paprika really enhances the flavour of the barbecued slow roasted delicacies.  Also gives it a very appetizing appearance.<br /><br />Fast shipping, good price, well sealed, no problems. Would buy again.<br /><br />Q: Do you know the origin of the word Barbecue?<br /><br />A: This word originated from the cooking methods of the Barbary pirates who ate most of their meals cooked outdors on an open grill/flame. Hence: Barbecue."
,,,,,good product for Bar-B-Q,This gives a good flaver to Bar-B-Q even if done in the oven. It can be used to give a smokey flaver to food not done on a outside cooker.
,,,,,Smokey Flavor,Wow smoked sweet paprika is extremely hard to find in stores luckly I was able to find this huge container of smoked paprika for a really good price. I found that it was a really good spice to use and it makes food taste as if you grilled it on a charcoal grill which is awesome. Give it a shot you might like it.
,,,,,Smoked Paprika,I like the smoked sweet paprika better than other styles of sweet paprika. It came fresh at a reasonable price.
,,,,,Handy container,The paprika is good and the container will keep it fresh for some time. I use these bulk spices to make my own barbque rubs. The container is also recyclable for keeping the finished rubs.
,,,,,BBQ Rub,"I've been trying to find a good paprika for a rub used in the smoker. This stuff is the absolute best that I've found. It's sweet but still has all the flavor you want from paprika without being overly smoky. If you make homemade rubs, I strongly recommend this stuff."
,,,,,smoked hungarian paprika,"I love, love this stuff.  i add it to meats for a great smokey taste.  i use it with herbs, other spices an brown sugar to make a super rub for bar-b-q"
,,,,,could benefit from anti-cakeing agents,"This is the smaller jar.  some what clumped, could benefit from anti-cakeing agents; however I wanted this for canning so it works well.  defiantly worth the price. contains ""chili pepper,garlic,coriander,cumin,clove(all smoked)"""
,,,,,Very Disappointed,"I ordered  Smoke paprika, unfortunately i received regular sweet. I called and spoke with a gentleman, who promised to send me the smoke paprika and apologized for the mistake made. Until today (1 month maybe 2 later) still haven't received anything or heard from the company. Very disappointed."
,,,,,big jar,"haven't used it yet , but if going by past Marshal Creek products ... ? should be good."
,,,,,rip off,"the details say:<br />Product Features:<br />12 Blister PEZ Packs<br />3 PEZ candy refills in each pack,<br />Disney's Cars Pez Assortment<br /><br />Product Description:<br />Cars PEZ dispensers featuring Lightning McQueen, Mater, Sally and Doc Hudson. Each is individually bagged and include two great tasting candy refills.<br /><br />I only got 6 blister packs and only got 3 of the 4 characters. Also the picture showed 12 packages. Obviously they put a ""6 dispensers"" in the title (I thought that to be a misprint) and took a 12 pack and busted it down and sent me half for the price that was for 12. RIP OFF!!!"
,,,,,delicious!!,"This is one of the best mixed nut blends I have ever had!<br />Everything tastes extremely fresh and natural. The flavor combination is amazing - perfect mix of nuts and dried fruits. I really like that this blend doesn't include peanuts - I'm tired of nut blends always including peanuts... enough already! This was a refreshing change and a great snack.<br />I also feel the price is reasonable - considering there are no peanuts, everything is natural, and it tastes great!"
,,,,,Great product but expensive.,The blend of ingredients is great and a good balance of dried fruit and nuts that our family enjoys. I was having trouble finding it in the local stores that I shop so I thought I would shop for this online. I was happy to find it but unhappy about how much more it costs to order online than picking it up at a local store. I don't think I will order it again online and will simply keep my eyes open when I shop locally.
,,,,,"Totally agree with the other reviewers, this is so great!","I tried a small cup of sample at my local BJ's store and just loved it.Then I picked up 1 pack from the table right away, even forgot to check the price. Anyway, I will go back and see if the price is better at BJ's or at Amazon."
,,,,,my favorite,"I found just enough of this product to be totally addicted. Now I can't find it anywhere, how come?<br />It was the perfect blend to add to my morning hot cereal. Please bring it back.<br />I agree that it was good in part because of NO peanuts."
,,,,,product,I used this in a gift basket for a ladies tea. I like the product myself. Very nicely packaged. Thank you.
,,,,,No effect on anyone in our family,"I was quite excited to try this product, so I bought 4 packs. We opened one, and I tested a half-tablet. No result. My wife tried the other half. Ditto. The next day, we tried a full tablet, letting it completely dissolve over the entire tongue. I found the tablets pretty tasty themselves, while my wife found them too chalky to enjoy. Anyway, again there was no effect with lemons, chili sauce, etc. Our daughter also had no discernible change in her taste of foods.<br /><br />Happily for me, the company is going to refund me for the other three packages. But I would have preferred that they'd worked. I was looking forward to bringing them out at an upcoming party."
,,,,,Mberry didn't work for me :-(,I guess everyone's taste buds are different.  This product didn't work for me.  Every food item tasted as it should :-(
,,,,,Doesn't work for me,Dissolved an entire tab on my tongue and was disappointed to discover that it had no effect on ANY of the foods that I tried.
,,,,,Didn't taste good for me.,"After taking a tab, I was able to eat a hot pepper, but it didn't really taste sweet or good at all, just not very hot.  Then I tried some cayenne pepper, which remained hot with no alteration in taste.This is a nice idea, but didn't work for me."
,,,,,Did NOT work for me at all!,"I bought my mberry pack from mberry.us online hoping to use it to curb my sweet tooth. I followed the directions to the letter, allowing the tablet to dissolve completely on my tongue. I then tried balsalmic vinegar - nothing happened to the taste at all except that my tongue burned a little. So I tried hot sauce - nothing happened again except that my tongue burned a lot. Then I tried regular vinegar - nothing happened again. I even tried taking a second tablet, but it still did nothing but slightly burn my tongue. HUGE waste of money. Super disappointing. DOES NOT WORK!"
,,,,,Pass on the HYPE...Save Yourself Some Bank!,"Not much to say, other than the product solicitation is all hype! I carefully followed the directions on the packaging of the ""mberry Miracle Fruit Tablets"" and the results were about as miraculous as one of those potato chips baring the face of Mary Magdelene! Sorry ""Believers of Miracles""... this is one that won't make ""The Tonight Show""!"
,,,,,Notification of Cancelled order 2 weeks after order was placed,"I was excited about these and had organized a whole event for my fiancee's birthday around these tablets.<br />Placed an order well in advance, namely 3 weeks in advance.<br /><br />After two weeks of waiting, I received a notification that my order was being cancelled for some mysterious as yet to be determined problem. The email attempted to spread the blame between Amazon, its supplier and some mysterious unknown factor, ultimately taking no real responsibility for the blunder.<br /><br />Color me frustrated and confused because while they said they are stopping all orders for the time being, their company website still shows the product in stock and ready for orders.<br /><br />This to say the least was very disappointing and more so because the company's response was very wishy washy and lame. In my experience, when a company screws up (mind you it wasn't just my order, it was a whole slew of orders that got cancelled)<br />they should own up and take responsibility thereby showing some integrity, rather than mutter some indecipherable mumbo jumbo that does nothing to explain nor solve the customers problem."
,,,,,1 Pill = Basically 1/2 a Flintstone Vitamin,"I'm jealous of whoever thought of this, but the actual product turns out to be pretty unimpressive. It turns out, if you eat half a fruit roll-up, then eat asparagus, the aspragus tastes differently than you might expect.  There. That's all you need to know.  DON'T buy this product, just buy some Gushers next time you're at Wal-Mart.  2 star review because I like Gushers."
,,,,,Did next to nothing like it says it will.....,"I dissolved an entire tab in my mouth and then ate bitter greens and it did nothing.  I added some vinegar to the greens and it did make it a tad sweeter, but it didnt make them taste good.....It makes really sour things slightly sweeter....but NO MIRACLE."
,,,,,Ehhhhhh,"Well I bought these to have a ""Food Tripping Party"" with my wife. I had a spread before us of lemons, limes, strawberries, blackberries, oranges, and grapefruit. We both started with half a pill each as per the reviews here. I then took a bite of a lemon. I guess is was sweeter but not by much, though I was able to eat it. It was like a sweet + tart food which I guess is because of the acid in the fruit. I then ate another half of pill because the instructions that came with the pills stated to take a full one. I tried again. It made the lemons bearable but not super sweet. You would not be able to eat an entire be happy. I went onto the other fruits and the same thing. You could still taste the tart with a sweet aftertaste. My wife said this, ""Well it makes it so you can eat lemons, but who wants to sit around eating lemons all day?"" I'm disappointed BUT the price was cheap enough and it was a fun thing to do with my wife. I'll pawn these off on friends and see what they say. To all the people who threw parties and raved and raved about how everyone loved them, my guess is that they didn't want you to feel bad."
,,,,,Didn't work for me.,It didn't work for me.  Maybe its because I couldn't get past letting the whole tablet dissolve because to me the tablet tasted like vomit.
,,,,,"Yep, it works!","This product definitely works.<br />I was not aware that i was supposed to break the tablet in half. After eating a whole tablet, I ate a lemon. It was WAY WAY too sweet!<br />I waited 2 hours for the product to wear off so i could eat regular food.<br />I tried a 1/2 tablet the next day. I added some lemon to a glass of water. To me, it tasted like lemonade with 5 packets of splenda. It didn't taste like regular sugar. Which i guess is good. The sweet taste was just different.<br />I also ate cottage cheese, it tasted like cottage cheese with sweetener in it.<br />The product works immediately by the way. No waiting for this to work.<br /><br />I think this product will last me a while.<br />The day after this review I took a tiny nibble of the leftover 1/2 tablet.I made another glass of lemon water and the lemonade was perfect for me. Not overly sweet, tasted like a lemon drop ;p<br />Your mileage may vary with this product.<br /><br />I've heard that other brands taste a bit better than this one.<br />I just ordered a pack from another company. I will report back.<br /><br />I have a HUGE sweet tooth and I'm trying to lose some weight. I'm hoping these tablets will help me with that :)"
,,,,,"Neat, but not ""wowwie!""","After reading reviews and testing these out with friends, I can say this: Everyone's tastes (and tastebuds) are different. What is not sweet to one person is super sweet to another. So be ye warned, results for these may vary.<br /><br />I found that the tablets didn't make things ""sweet"" as much it cut down on the sourness, almost like a numbing effect.  Ever put sugar on a lemon slice and bit into it? The sour kick is still there, just canceled out. I'm certainly not going to be eating them like candy as some reviews suggest.<br /><br />Tried out a few beer types, with mixed results: Beers that are fruity/citrus ended up gross, as it would taste like I mixed in a mouthful of juice with the beer. Dark beers like an Irish Red were my favorite.<br /><br />I really recommend going out to eat so you can try a variety of things. Certain foods will take you for surprise (ranch dressing, for example, was notably different and very good)."
,,,,,MAMMA MIA!!!!,"Wow, I DID NOT EXPECT such a quick, shocking result from this product, but it definitely delivers!!! My brother told me about these tablets and the ""flavor tripping"" parties. I had never heard of them before, but decided to give it a try just because the claim sounded so wildly strange, a sort of ""Ripley's Believe it or not"" kind of novelty.<br />Anyway, the tablets WORK immediately. I just took one, had a lemon, and voila': it's SWEET! I also tried a sip of Chianti wine.. SWEET.... I poured a spoonful of white vinegar in a small glass of water... SWEET... I haven't tried beer or other things, but sooner or later I will!<br />The best thing I see coming out of this is that I FINALLY don't need to sweeten my tea! I'll just squeeze a lemon in and that will be that.<br />Hmmm... perhaps I can add lemon juice to soda water and it can turn into a new diet soft-drink!! The possibilities are endless!"
,,,,,it works... sorta,"I do reccomend this product, as it is effective and very fun to try. Here are the setbacks: It only lasts around 30 minutes, not 2 hours. I bought these in lieu of the actual berries ($90 vs. $10) so they weren't as potent as I had read about/expected. Nonetheless, they do work! Lemons and limes were delicious!<br />Oh, be sure to move the tablet over the ENTIRE surface of your tounge in order to cover ALL of your taste buds."
,,,,,I know what your thinking and yes it works for that too,"Basically these tables change the way you taste acidic things, they will instead taste sweet. Lemons taste like a strong lemonade. Some of you might be thinking, well that's fun and all but how would my lover taste? well, kind of sweet(men and women). Give it a try you'll see. My only complaint is that they made them look so much like a drug that I had to convince some of my more prudish friends that it was just ground fruit."
,,,,,Unbelievable!,"I saw an article on Yahoo and figured I would give it a try. This stuff was unbelievable. I ate healthy foods for the first try. Some carrots, spinach, a red pepper and an orange. It was probably the best meal I had ever tasted. It was like I was eating a fruit picked from Eden. On the downside I could see this becoming an addiction!"
,,,,,It works and was fun.,"I got these for me and my boyfriend to try but he refused to try it with me... at first. I tried to explain to him that it's just fruit put in a pill form but he was convinced it was some type of trick I was trying to pull on him. Anyways so I went to the store and picked up some lemons, limes, tomatoes, kiwi, oatmeal stout beer (which I absolutely hate stout beer), sour candy and some red hots. I let the pill dissolve on my tongue and started out trying a lemon. One thing I recommend which I didn't do was to try out all the food first to get something to compare it to. I sat in front of my boyfriend and ate a whole lemon without even flinching. Then I told him to try it and he could barely lick it without making a face. Then I tried some stout beer... it tasted like cold coffee with a hint of kahluah. I eventually got him to take one of the pills. We had sooo much fun tasting foods!! it was amazing how much it worked!!!! I already recommended it to all my friends and now I recommend it to you. It can be a really cool party trick by betting someone you can eat a whole lemon without making a face."
,,,,,Amazing,"After dissolving one tab on my tongue, I ate 1/4 of a large lime, and it tasted mostly sweet with just a hint of tartness!  I would have eaten the whole lime but was worried all that acid might upset my stomach.  I didn't notice any difference when I ate parsley, though--the parsley still tasted somewhat bitter to me.  Miracle Berry worked extremely well for me with sour stuff, but not at all as far as I could tell with bitter stuff.<br /><br />Still, well worth the price to experience this amazing transformation in taste.<br /><br />Edit:  I had a craving for blackberries and bought a large container of them from a warehouse-type store.  I planned on eating them all at one sitting, but after one or two I couldn't eat them--they were mostly sour and hardly any sweet.  I remembered that I had some of these tablets left, so I rolled one around on my tongue until it dissolved, and thereafter the blackberries tasted pleasantly sweet, so I was able to finish them all."
,,,,,M-azing!,"The mberry tabs work by altering your taste receptors and make sour tasting foods more sweet. I'm a high school science teacher, and I used these both in my classes and for my science club. The students love trying out different sour food items to taste the results. I've used this brand several times, and it seems to be pretty consistent in it's effectiveness and quality. The best way I can describe the effect of these tabs is it makes a lemon taste like a lemon ""shake-up"" from a fair/carnival. It does not create a super ""candy-like"" sweetness (which I think would be really weird anyway), there is still a hint of sour behind the sweet taste. Also, they do not last anywhere near an hour, more like 15-20 min., so just be warned, and be ready to taste things immediately after dissolving the pill in your mouth. In my experience, there have been a percentage of people for whom the tabs are not effective, maybe between 5-15% in a group (1-3 people per 20). The tabs are somewhat expensive, but as a pretty unique experience, I definitely recommend trying it at least once!"
,,,,,AMAZING!!!!!,"I just did a test run for a work party and I sampled raspberries, strawberries, lemons, limes, Tabasco sauce, goats cheese, beer, orange juice, and yogurt. First off, the lemon was the best tasting example of fruit I have ever had in my life. I wanted to eat the whole thing. The rest of the fruits tasted delicious. The unsweetened yogurt was good, the orange juice amazing, and the beer much sweeter. The goats cheese didnt taste that yummy to me and the tabasco sauce didnt have a noticeable change in flavor. Over all, a very fun and effective flavor changing experience!"
,,,,,It does change the way you taste...,"It does change the way you taste but not to such a great effect that you are expecting. It's more of a pleasant surprise and not a OMG! surprise. It makes sour and most fruits sweeter. It makes beer taste like some sort of sugary juice (and I don't like beer). I would like to try cream cheese and wine which are supposed to be yummy. I recommend this product and I only need a half a tablet to last about 45 min to an hour. I wouldn't dare try spicy foods as they suggest on the package but they suggest pineapple, cheese, peppers, and limes. Lemon in water tasted like lemonade with tons of sugar. I would experiement and see how it works out for you. It doesn't work on all foods though like potatoes or meats, as it mostly alters your sour or tart taste buds."
,,,,,Miracle Fruit Success,My daughter had  me buy these for her 18th birthday party.  What a success!  The tablets arrived ahead of schedule so we could concentrate on other items.  The kids had a fun time trying out sour foods that became sweet after letting the tablets melt in their mouth. Everyone had a great time and really enjoyed them.  We're recommending them to everyone!
,,,,,Wow,"GREAT for parties.  This stuff actually works.  I was eating War-Heads, which I normally hate, like they were gummy bears.  Eating a lemon tasted like drinking lemonade.  You've got to try this stuff."
,,,,,Blown Away!!!,"I purchased these tabs for my daughters ""flavor tripping"" party. I have never tried them out before so I invited a couple of friends over to experience this with me. I set up a spread our items, gave everyone a mberry, and got to tasting. The first item that we tried was a lemon and we were literally blown away because they were so sweet and tasty. Next came the dill pickle and it tasted like a sweet pickle. We even tried ketchup and mustard and couldn't stop dipping out fingers in it because the flavors were unbelievable. We also had a bottle of cheap dry wine and it was delicious. The strawberries were so delicious that we ate the entire bowl. Fruit rollups were great too. This is something that I know my daughter will enjoy at her party and I will be trying these time and time again."
,,,,,Flavor tripping is fun!,"After reading an article online a while back about flavor tripping, I went looking for miracle berries and was surprised to find these handy tablets on Amazon. I was worried they wouldn't pack the punch the actual berries were reputed to, but they turned out to be a great purchase.<br /><br />It's true that how effective they are varies by person, and by the foods you try them with, but overall these were a big hit at numerous gatherings of friends and family. I've found that the biggest hits tend to be vinegar, and tart citrus like lemons, limes, or grapefruit juice. For me all go from being sour to very sweet (yes, to the point where if I didn't know better I'd be gulping the vinegar down). Dark beers are interesting, with the changed flavor still usually somewhat enjoyable. Foods or drinks that are already very sweet become cloying and unpleasant. It's still worth trying just to see the effect, but keep that in mind when choosing things to try with the tablets in advance.<br /><br />I've ordered these 4 times, and hope to do so again (at the time of this writing, they are not available). If they remain out of stock for too long, I'll have to try some of the alternatives. I'm reluctant to do so though, knowing how effective these are."
,,,,,So much fun - but don't forget the Tums!,"My friend and I had a flavor tripping party for two.  We each dissolved one tablet on our tongues and then dug in to a plate full of lemons, limes and other sour items.  The effect was immediate and amazing.  We were laughing hysterically throughout the whole ordeal.  We also tried shots of vinegar, mustard by the spoonful (really yummy) and several other types of fruit.  We had a blast finding new things to try.  I think next we're going to have a big group over to play around.  As other reviewers have mentioned, you can split the tablets in half to lessen the effect.  Remember - if you're going to have a flavor tripping party of your own, pack some antacid.  After all we ate, we really needed it.<br /><br />Updates 12/20 - I gave mberry pills to friends for the holidays.  The pills didn't work for all of them.  Judging by some of the reviews the pills either don't work for everyone or not every pill is the same potency.  I contacted the seller who put me in touch with the manufacturer and they are sending me out a replacement batch to give the people who had a bad experience.  Excellent customer service all around.  I still wholeheartedly recommend giving the tablets a try.  If it works for you, it is really amazing."
,,,,,Miracle Berry Fruit Tablets,"A friend referred me to these and told me that they were ""freaking awesome."" I decided to give them ago and surprisingly they work extremely well.  I found that the taste of them, while they are dissolving on your tongue is a bit horrid, but nothing I couldn't tolerate.<br /><br />After it dissolved me and some friends decided to test it.  We cut up some lemons and limes and decided to see if these really worked and to our amazement they really did.  The lemons tasted like a 'lemon drop' candy, and the limes were very refreshing.  We then expanded our horizons and started trying other things to see what it was like. We found some other foods to be excellent, and others not so much.  All in all it's very fun.<br /><br />They are, however, quite expensive. The effects on me lasted roughly 1-1.5 hours.  So as a novelty, hurray for these."
,,,,,"It works, but watch out!","This is a neat product, and it does what it says it does.  However, if you decide to have a party where you invite guests to partake of handfuls of raw cranberries, lemons juice, tabasco sauce, beer, mustard, and a variety of other items which are sour, the miracle berry can do nothing at all to augment the considerable effect this will have on their bowels."
,,,,,VERY cool,"I ordered these after hearing about them from some friends. I was very skeptical if it would even really work noticeably and was even more skeptical about the ""pill form"". But WOW! They really do work! It makes anything bitter or sour taste instantly sweet. I tried a few things and could definitely tell they were sweeter. But the most noticeable was the lemon. I really didn't even want to try it at first but i was told i had to. It tasted like the sweetest and most flavorful lemonade ever. Seriously, it was like candy all of the sudden. I almost couldn't believe it. When a few friends were over i gave them a pill each and we all of the sudden lemons were the best thing ever lol!"
,,,,,Chemo Patient Miracle,"I purchased this for my mother who is currently undergoing some powerful chemotherapy. During her first chemo, she hated everything because everything tasted like metal and it was short of pulling teeth to get her to eat something. She called me and asked me to order her this because an oncology nurse that she is friends with suggested it. During her second chemo she ate all her normal foods and actually enjoyed it making the entire process of eating during chemo a small miracle. We were so happy that she was eating because of this that we ordered more immediately!"
,,,,,fun,Effects with some foods are more remarkable than others. I found balsamic vinegar tasting fairly like wine to be one of the most remarkable.
,,,,,Lemons are amazing,I got these tablets to try them out to see if they really worked and to my suprise they do and they made lemons taste amazing. Most of the other items on the list did not taste much better to me but I am still trying some out.
,,,,,Too sweet for my tastes...,"After reading most of the reviews, I was expecting the tablet to taste gross.  It does not.  It's not yummy, but it does have a slight (tart?) flavor to it.<br /><br />My first taste was of a strawberry.  It was way too sweet for me.  Almost tasted like I had put tons of sugar on the strawberry, or even sugar substitute.  Next I tried a blackberry, blueberry, pomegranate seed....they were sweeter, but I wasn't blown away by how ""good"" they tasted, just surprised at how my taste buds have changed.  Next up, a lemon!  Everyone has been right about the lemon, it tastes like lemonade!  I ate half of a lemon before I decided it was too sweet for me.  I put pomegranate flavored Greek yogurt over the fruit I just mentioned, and had a bite.  TOO SWEET for me!  Next up, some fermented spicy daikon (ever hear of ""Dave's Gourmet Korean food""?  Everything is fermented in vinegar and it is DELICIOUS!).  The vinegar taste was gone, but the spiciness remained.  Interesting.  I actually like the regular flavor, unaltered, so I won't be having that again.  Oh, I also tried chocolate flavored coconut water--yuck!  There was a chocolate CHALKY taste to it.  It has now been 30 minutes and I just tried the other half of the lemon.  It still tastes sweet to me.  And then I had a sip of veggie broth (from ""Dave's Korean"") which is the only thing that has changed in a way that was pleasing to my taste buds.<br /><br />I'm giving the mberry four stars because it DOES do what it claims, it's just not my preferred way of tasting things."
,,,,,just as advertised,Make sure you salivate a lot and don't swallow for best results. They'll typically last a few hours. They're a big hit for guests. You can even get by with half after you've had one or two. Doesn't work too well on liquors but most sour and acidic foods there is a very noticeable effect.
,,,,,Neat stuff,"Chewed a few of these and ate cheese, hot sauce and a bunch of citrus. Pretty neat stuff. If it was less expensive I could see this benefiting those who'd like to cut down on their sugar but still enjoy fruits."
,,,,,People are so picky.,"It works, that's what matters. People have to nit-pick every little thing. Maybe it doesn't last forever, but it's not meant to.<br /><br />My experience - melted it on my tongue and ate some foods I couldn't normally eat. This means it worked, and real good. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED: strawberries!!! Willing to buy these again just for eating strawberries. Limes are tasty too."
,,,,,Very Unique,"I took these over to a friends house and tried them with amazing results. After sucking on the pill and letting it dissolve for a few minutes, it really did make everything sour, taste sweet. We tried lemons, limes, even sour candy. The weird thing is, they didn't affect the taste of sweet things, like oranges. These are great for a dinner party."
,,,,,It's cool but no miracle,"Before I bought this product I read several reviews saying that this stuff was amazing, that it made everything super sweet. So I thought I would try it out, and it is pretty cool, but not worth the outrageous price. About one minute after I sucked the tab I tried eating numerous things like limes, lemons, and oranges, just to name a few. It did make everything that's sour sweet. Not to the point of ""oh my god, it's amazing"" but it did work. So to sum this up, this stuff was good for a one time deal, but after doing it a few times it lost it's appeal."
,,,,,Works well,"The tablets do work but from I read in the description that half a tablet would work- it does, but you have to make sure your whole tongue and mouth had decent contact with the tablet piece.  The tablet dissolves quite fast in your mouth so 1/2 tablet may be too little.<br /><br />I tried again using 1 tablet and had good results- then tried with 2 and had slightly better results.  The effect was pretty good.  Lemons are still a bit sour to eat raw but its not that bad.  Grapefruit is particularly awesome with this tablet.  Limes were in between- still a little sour but tasted quite nice.  Overall I could still not eat too much lemon or lime and the acid content of both got me worried about stomaching too much."
,,,,,miracle indeed,"this is a great product. i gave a few tablets away to family and friends and they all loved it. it made anything with citric acid sweet,and even made some fruits sweeter. its a real experience for the palet."
,,,,,Flavor Trip,"This tablets were really fun to try out. My parents, my siblings, and my friends all loved them and were so confused on how well they worked. Do not drink store bought orange juice though! It was sickly sweet because of the sugar added and the acid in it! My favorite was fresh pineapple and sucking on limes. (Limes were sweeter for me than the lemons)"
,,,,,Awesome!,"This product makes me want to buy a Miracle Fruit tree so I can have these awesome berries all the time.<br /><br />The biggest changes my husband and I noticed were in eating fruits & other berries. Store-bought strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, blackberries, oranges, and green apples tasted like they were just picked off the plant/bush/tree at the height of ripeness. It was like being a kid again and biting into my first :)<br /><br />I didn't notice any change at all with anything bitter. Beers and coffees and teas tasted about the same. Spicy things like hot sauce tasted kind of gross. Savory things like noodles and meat got a slight hint of sweetness, but nothing THAT noticeable. Sweet things like candy and cake were made to be way too sweet to be palatable.<br /><br />Definitely make sure you get the tablet to slide all over your tongue, and don't chew -- leave it on your tongue until it dissolves.<br /><br />If you're a fan of sweet, succulent fruit, but can't get fresh produce from farmer's markets, do yourself a favor and try these. It's worth the price for the fun, at the very least :)"
,,,,,These berries are awesome!,"First things first, these actually work. I tried tons of different foods and they all tasted a lot better. If you haven't tried these already, it's a must. It is definitely a great experience"
,,,,,Made for one interesting night!,"Heard about these and simply had to check them out. Ordered a package and invited a few friends over after a huge shopping trip for an evening of ""flavor tripping."" That is exactly what it was, the tablets themself have an odd taste (not the best) but for two hours afterward everything we ate was completely different from anything I've had before. Lemons, kiwi, strawberries, cheese, mustard, cranberry juice, OJ, and a lot more. IT all was completely different and was like experiencing these foods for the first time. Everything was sweet and tasted (with few exclusions) much better. I ended up eating whole lemons by the end because they were my favorite.<br /><br />These really are amazing and I would recommend them to anyone who likes food."
,,,,,Really Works!,"Had fun with my family with the mberries, they absolutely worked for all 5 of us and it was a blast! Definitely worth a try!"
,,,,,It really did help,It really did help my father is a cancer patient and. Didnt want to eat because the taste was no good.well the miracle berry gave him a good taste again
,,,,,Mberry Tabs,Very interesting. The tablet itself doesnt taste that great but it melts pretty fast. The best stuff we found to try it with was apple and any citrus. It really sweetens the fruit. Its kinda crazy. It was fun.
,,,,,Amazing.,"I just bought the mberry with slight concerns that it will not work. All those concerns went away when I tried it. It was a tingly feeling at first where ever it was on the tongue. I didn't notice anything. First thing i tried was a grape. I mean this was the most delicious grape I had ever tasted. I started try all the fruits and sodas i could. Amazing. People don't realize that you should use it on fruits and things with acidity. It is supposed to make them sweeter. Although it did make one of my cookies sweeter it wasn't nearly as dramatic as when I ate a lime. It tasted like lime-ade. I wouldn't suggest eating a bunch of lemons because this only affects your tongue. Not your stomach. When you buy these you run the risk that it won't work, but it probably will. Very pleased."
,,,,,fun to try,"fun to try.  really, they're just an amazing way to eat lemons.  you can basically squeese lemons in water and it tastes delicious.<br /><br />I can't tell the difference between brands.  seem pretty much the same to me...<br /><br />they make a fun gift.  don't buy them for a mind bending experience, they're not drugs; they're a sort of food sweetener."
,,,,,Worked as expected,The effect was just as described and worked for about 20-30 minutes. I'd recommend trying it if you're interested. You won't be disappointed.
,,,,,Fun!,Fun! Changes taste of so many things! Try it! We almost drank a whole bottle of lemon juice after using this fruit that's how well it works!
,,,,,'m'azing mBerry's! Definitely works and is a ton of fun!,"I really enjoyed this, tried it with my family and my dad was so skeptical at first but when he took a bit into the lemon he was flabbergasted! The look on his face was priceless. Best for groups of friends unless you experiment alone but the more the merrier! Wish it came with more berries per the price which is a bit steep for tablets and not the real berries which are hard to come by. People said it lasts only a couple minutes but for me it was a decent 15 minutes or more. Obviously the lemons with juice and other fruits will make it end quicker since there are liquids washing it out. Just have everything prepared and on the table before you take it!"
,,,,,Miracle berry + lemons = AWESOMENESS,"I was researching the miracle berry protein miraculin for a research proposal, so I decided to give these tablets a try. The effect was immediate, and lasted approximately 20 min for me and my coworkers. Everyone was completely in love with the lemons, and those who normally enjoy the flavor of lime went nuts over them as well. For some the effect was actually too sweet, and they gave up after a few foods. Other foods/beverages tested were blackberries and raspberries (lost their tartness), red wine vinegar (sweet on the tongue, but not so great in the throat) and Corona (loses bitterness and is sweet if you squeeze some lime into it). It certainly is not cost effective as a diet aid, but it's a great parlor trick to share when you are entertaining."
,,,,,taste tripping,It works and lasts for a few minutes to make sours sweet.  Its trippy.
,,,,,It's miraculous!,"For a real tast treat, you have to try these. Sour foods taste sugary sweet. Apples, strawberries and oranges will taste like the most delicious fruit you've ever had. This makes for a fun party activity where guests will marvel over the ""wonderful vinegar"" and ""candy-like limes""."
,,,,,Very slight effect....,"Maybe the miracle fruit does not work for everyone. It had very little effect when I used it. I started with a clear pallet, let the pill dissolve on my tongue etc. Then I tried the classic first, a lime. I noticed, barely, that it was not quite as pucker inducing as it may have been without the mberry but just slightly. And it did not add any ""sweet"". It just inhibited a hint of sour. Other foods like vinegar, vinegar chips, Guinness, strawberries, cheese, etc. Many recommended fruits and foods have very little impact. And after just a few minutes, I could notice any change.<br /><br />So, either, some people just don't have the same level of effect or much of the miracle berry effects are group dynamics and heightened suggestibility. Either way, they were a let down."
,,,,,Fun but not as effective,"These tablets did work, but were not nearly as effective as I had expected.  I set up an entire spread of foods, cheeses, fruits, vegetables, liquids etc to try and when my friends and I allowed the tablets to dissolve, they only worked on a couple things and only for a very short period of time (maybe 5-10 min?)"
,,,,,Pretty Fun!!,"We found these tablets to be pretty fun! I suggest dissolving a full tablet in your mouth, not cutting it in half as others suggested. And definitely be sure to move the tablet around your ENTIRE tongue...I missed the back of my tongue when dissolving the tablet so whenever I'd swallow I'd get a hint of the real flavor.<br /><br />However, it was definitely neat to see how the tablet changes your taste!! We tried lemons, limes, grapefruit, buffalo wing flavored potato chips, sour patch kids, warhead sour spray, dill pickles, oranges, whiskey, and wine. I found the ruby red grapefruit to be absolutely AMAZING. The dill pickles tasted so much like sweet pickles, I had to double check the jar to make sure they weren't! Pinot grigio was particularly delicious, as the tablet cut through the sour-ness turning it super sweet!!<br /><br />Oranges were okay, just tasted a little sweeter than normal. The lemons were still a bit sour but I found myself eating 4 slices of them, which I don't think I could have done without the tablets! I swear, the ruby red grapefruit was by far the best, in my opinion.<br /><br />We found that the more sour a food, the more drastic an effect. I definitely recommend trying these tablets with a full fridge so you can experience all types of foods! I'd say some grapefruit, lemons, and dill pickles are a must to try with these.<br /><br />They're great to try with friends, as the novelty wears off after one or two tries. As long as there are new people around though, it's fun to see other reactions to the tablets. Definitely recommend!!"
,,,,,Brilliant product!,"I took one of these tablets, and the results were instantaneous. I drank some pure lemon juice, and it tasted like  very sweet lemonade. My Sister then tried it and spat it out immediately. I then tried a lime, which was delicious, and some cheese. I do not usually like cheese, but i after eating a little bit i was amazed at how wonderful it tasted with the tablets. I highly recommend this product, beacuse it will amaze you the moment you start tasting."
,,,,,They Actually Work!!!,"At first i did not think they would work, but i bought them after reading the scientific view of them and then decided to buy them just to see. After i got them i had to try something sour just to see, so i took a half tablet and put some lemon juice on my tung. Amazingly they worked!!! This is an awesome product for anyone who likes wired things or just has a liking of chemistry. :)"
,,,,,Miracle actual fruits wayy better,These tablets hardly work in comparison with the actual berries. If you want flavor tripping then buy a box of the Synsepalum dulcificum berries or grow your own plant instead of wasting money on the pill/tablets. In my opinion.
,,,,,It works as stated.,I tried two lemons after dissolving two tablets in my mouth.  It tasted just like lemonade.  One thing.  The package recommends 1 tablet.  That didn't work for me.  If you are a tad overweight two is better.
,,,,,Miracle Fruit Tablets,"I seen this product on Dr. Oz and I just had to try this out to see if it works. Yes, it works and I can eat and drink lemon juice three times a day.<br />It is a miracle pill. :)"
,,,,,works as advertised,"I used the tablets and it made lime and lemon sweeter. It wasn't as sweet as all the other reviews claimed. The lemon tasted like a sort of ripe orange. I let my grandma try it, but she said it didn't work for her."
,,,,,"It works, but not as expected.","As other reviewers have pointed out, the effects vary from person to person. Each tablet seemed to last up to a half hour (longer for my sister)and while it did make things noticeably sweeter, the initial taste of something was identical, and it slowly got sweeter after the first half a second. Oh, and sour/bitter drinks like Monster took on a sickly sweet syrupy flavor that may leave you feeling a bit ill after. Don't try Apple cider vinegar, it tastes fine if a bit odd on your tongue, but as soon as it hits your throat the flavor and fumes were overpoweringly awful."
,,,,,Eh,"They do make sour stuff sweet for a bit, but sometimes it gives it an odd flavor... great novelty item."
,,,,,Miracle Fruit Rocks,"I've had this a few times before and it is amazing. Last time I had it a half pill was one dose so I thought this was a bit cheaper than it turned out to be but it's still great and well worth it at $2 per dose. I like that it also came with some recommended foods to try. Lemons and limes are by far the best, beer is pretty cool too."
,,,,,Great get together idea,The mberry tablets worked great.  We tried a lot of the suggested pairings and most of them had some sort of fun taste after eating the tablets.
,,,,,These Are Seriously Cool,"I was curious and decided to buy this product because of it (and despite the price).  It worked and is SERIOUSLY cool.  I followed the directions by putting a whole tablet on my tongue and letting it completely dissolved.  Sliced up a lemon and very warily put it in my mouth just to find that it tasted like a sweet lemonade.  There was only a slight tinge of sour.  I would have happily KEPT eating lemons, as they were delicious, the the acid on my lips told me to stop.  I plan on buying MUCH more of this product in the future.  It works and is fantastic!"
,,,,,Wow.,"It was crazy, it made things taste super sweet, some things not at all though. However, this deliverer was extremely reliable and i receiver my package a day EARLY. A first for me with Amazon!"
,,,,,AMAZING!,"My friend brought this over for a party, and we tried the limes, lemons, oranges and bananas! The initial taste of the tablet is pretty nasty, but just stick with it until it's dissolved completely on your tongue, coating it. After that, sour fruit like lemons and limes taste like the BEST sour candy you have ever tasted in your life and you will DEVOUR them :D"
,,,,,mberry Miracle Fruit Tablets,"It does work, but only for a short time.  You need to dissolve it on your tongue and then let the fun begin!"
,,,,,Awsome,"This stuff works, but be warned the effect doesn't last very long for some people but it is still amazing. My friend and I tried eating a lemon slice and it was AMAZING... until the effect started to wear off slightly in the middle of it."
,,,,,Fun little experiment,"A very interesting and fun way to spend an evening. The tablet itself has a somewhat tart flavor, we sampled everything from cottage cheese to beers to fruits to salt and vinegar chips to warheads. Some differences were astounding, some not so much, great little adventure for your mouth."
,,,,,Miracle Berry....,"Just a tad expensive, but neater than heck!!  It really does what it says!  Awesome!!"
,,,,,Fun & Different,"They weren't mind-blowing, but they were definitely fun.  So far I've tried mine with a beer and a few snack foods.  Everything did taste noticeably sweet, especially the beer.  It ended up tasting like a cream soda.<br /><br />I'm looking forward to some more experimenting :)"
,,,,,These are weird!,"These tablets are quite odd, but they do work. They have a sort of chalky taste as you let them melt on your tongue, but if you get past that the effect is amazing. We ate whole lemons and limes. Oranges tasted like candy. It lasts for quite awhile too. They are definately worth a try."
,,,,,"Totally works, but for a limited amount of time","This mberry product really worked for my friends and I. Unfortunately, it only worked for about 15 to 20 minutes at most. It still made for a really fun experience!<br />The food items that were the most awesome included cream cheese (tasted like cheesecake), grapefruit (tasted sweet without added sugar), lemons (tasted like they had grown from a ""lemonade tree""), and various assortments of beer (just a different taste all together).<br />Definitely worth the $15 bucks if you are a foodie and want to experience this food trend."
,,,,,Miracle? No. Fun? Absolutely!,"Bought some of these after getting frustrated about not being able to grow the plant at my house (for those curious, I live in Northern California).  I've always been intrigued after seeing numerous videos on the internet.  I have to admit, I was a bit skeptical.<br /><br />When I got the package, I popped a whole tablet in my mouth and let is swish around my entire tongue until it dissolved.  As for the flavor, if any of you have had Haw Flakes from any Asian market, that's what it tastes like.  For those who don't know, don't worry, it's nothing disgusting.  Kinda bland, to be honest.  After is dissolved, the first thing I tried was a lime.  Verdict: Sweet.  Not overly sweet, but still sweet.  Kind of like a lemonade just a tad of sugar missing.  Next up, apple cider vinegar.  Verict: Sweet.  Doesn't taste exactly like apple cider like some people say, but I see what they're saying.  Last test is cheese.  It tasted different, but not exactly a big change.<br /><br />As for how long it lasted, I would say after 30-45 minutes, it started to fade.  After an hour, it was gone.<br /><br />Bottom line, it was fun to try it out and I will definitely be trying out more things in the future.  As for hosting a flavor-tripping party?  Maybe a good business venture."
,,,,,Amazingly Fun!,"This is my first time with the miracle berries in general. We got a bunch of friends over and everyone brought something. Oranges taste like the orange slice candies. And lemons taste like lemon drops. My favorite is the Christmas Beers that are available this time of year, they were almost like apple cider. Everyone had fun. Everything arrived fast, great seller. 5 STARS!!!"
,,,,,"Pretty cool, but not life changing.","These tablets definitely made things sweeter -- like lemons, limes, and grapefruit.  But it wasn't to the point of sheer amazement.  They also had an interesting effect on cheeses and vinegar, but still did virtually nothing for beer and wine. The tablets are a bit pricey but they do work.  If you've got extra money, sure, give them a try, but if you're looking for some amazing way to get your kids to eat broccoli or something along those lines then this is not the answer. Fun experiment, but not life-changing. :)"
,,,,,Disappointed,"I've tried this with multiple foods, at different times, and with anywhere between one and three tablets, all held on different areas of the tongue. While I could swear there were minor changes at low quantities, this didn't change no matter how many were tried. I'm sure that the Miracle Berries are authentic, but my friend and I didn't experience anything as incredible as people say, or even anything noteworthy. I would go for the actual fruit next time."
,,,,,Interesting,"It works. i took one, 2 minutes later i was trying different things in my mouth. Last thing im trying right now is beer and it taste different and sweat. if your into trying new things give these a try. i read that it wont work on some people but well chalk this as a did work for me review."
,,,,,Miracle Berry as seen used on Dr. Oz,"This tablet which is referred to as the miracle berry is used to distort taste of unpleasant(to you) items. You can let 1 dissolve in your mouth,swishing around once or twice, then bite a lemon and it taste sweet. It is an odd sort of sweet. It comes with a list of items you can use it with, lemons,strawberries,cheese. I was using it to try and mask the taste of the salt water flush while doing the master cleanse. It DOES NOT mask salt water. Not sure of a use I'd have for it. It does what it claims, just not needed for me."
,,,,,Works with a caveat,"In reading the reviews here it is obvious that different tastebuds are affected very differently.  At first I believed the tablets did nothing even though I used a whole one.  Bitter foods and drinks still tasted bitter to me.  Sweet foods and drinks didn't taste any sweeter.  I was prepared to write the whole thing off as placebo effect on the part of some people but the positive reviews made me try again.  It was when I drank pure lemon juice that I noticed a difference.  Pure lemon tasted like lemonade.  So the product does work, it just may not work exactly as advertised for you."
,,,,,Not as effective as competitor,"I tried the Frooties mBerry and the effect lasted one hour for me. I purchased this version since it had excellent reviews and was a slightly higher price.<br /><br />This version lasted only ten minutes. I tried tablets out of three different packages from three different batches to make sure it was not a faulty batch. The results from each test was the same.<br /><br />I would not suggest this version of the product, other tablet versions may be more effective but would suggest actual berries."
,,,,,Not satisfied,"Quite disappointed. The pills don't last that long (it wears off after a few tries per pill) and not all the food items on the suggested list works. E.g. Cheese. Maybe it was a bad batch, but I'm not taking the risk to purchase it again."
,,,,,Not amazed,"I tasted about half of the different foods on the big list of recommendations. Most tasted slightly different. Some got a sweet tickling in the mouth. I got the strongest effects from vinegar, ketchup/mustard and Salt-vinegar chips. But nothing tasted miraculously better as I had expected. As others have pointed out, everyone reacts differently. The two other people I did it with seemed to have about my reaction as well. One experienced a bit stronger and the other one a bit weaker than me. You could try this if you are interested but I wouldn't buy it again."
,,,,,Miracle Berry,Worked very little. Sweetened fresh pineapple but changed the taste to a bit bitter.<br />A sour orange it did help. It didn't work on anything else at all.
,,,,,Really works!,"This stuff really works, makes lemons taste sweet.  Gave to a friend, she loved it and ordered 3 to give to her friends.  Great party idea, try mberry with all sorts of foods, will change their flavor, fun to experiment."
,,,,,Nasty...,"First of all, these things taste pretty bad. If you can handle the taste while they melt on your tongue, maybe it wouldn't be AS bad. But I really didn't notice much change in the taste of foods. Lemons tasted sweet, but that's all I noticed. I considered trying two at a time, but they just tasted so bad to me that I have never used them again."
,,,,,magical!,this is quite neat!  i could drink a glass of vinegar and it would taste just like syrup!  it is certainly worth trying.
,,,,,Not quite the miracle we were expecting...,"After reading the reviews on Amazon and researching food ideas online I got some friends together and we all divulged.  Out of the seven of us who took it, three of us just felt sick after the process.  All of us concluded that while our taste buds were playing tricks on us, they were not necessarily good tricks.  I wouldn't say sour things tasted sweet for instance, I would say they tasted weird kind of like lychees but not very good ones.  The only thing I tried that really improved after dissolving the pill on my tongue was a Coors light.  It tasted like a pretty good Pilsner after the pill, and everyone seemed to like this, but sometimes a nice cold Coors light is just what you need, so...  If you have nothing left to spend your money on, this isn't the worst choice in the world, but don't expect a miracle, because that is not going to happen.  Expect a stomach ache, a loss of appetite, and then you won't find disappointment."
,,,,,Not Impressed,"My husband and I were excited to try them. We bought pineapple, beer, lemon, lime, hot peppers, cheese and wine. The only thing we noticed any difference in was the lemon and lime. The lemon was pretty easy to eat because it added some sweetness - it remained quite sour though. We each let one tablet dissolve on our tongue as directed so not sure what the problem was."
,,,,,"Placebo tablets, I think","I and a friend tried these tablets before sampling various kinds of foods we'd seen suggested online, but noticed no effects whatever. We used them as suggested, then even tried multiple tablets at once. Maybe I got a bad batch or maybe we have unusual taste buds, but in any case it was very disappointing. Makes me think I should have tried the berries themselves instead."
,,,,,Does nothing,"After reading several glowing reviews about this product, I decided to buy it and see for myself how great it is.<br /><br />After following the instructions, I taste tested a variety of items, that were suggested on the packaging. None of which seemed to have any affect. On lemons, I noticed a slight taste change, however the lemon was no sweeter.<br /><br />Bottom line; the product is over-hyped, and in my opinion, is not worth the buying. I know it's definitely not something I will ever purchase again."
,,,,,Nothing Miraculous Here,"StumbleUpon users, be wary. I was browsing when I stumbled upon an article about miracle berries- a cool new fad that apparently causes things to taste different than they normally would. Naturally, I tried to see where I could get my hands on some.<br /><br />Once I found the mberry Miracle Fruit Tablets, I did some research. I always look at a lot of reviews and alternatives before buying anything on Amazon. The price was relatively cheap, I figured, if it worked as advertised. The aggressive claims on the product's page and the Amazon user reviews also furthered my need to investigate this mystery product, so I bought two packs- one for me and one for my friend.<br /><br />After both of us trying the Miracle Berry tablets, I'd have to say that the product is extremely overhyped, and the experience was, unfortunately, lacking.<br /><br />The way mberry talks about their tablets, you'd expect to have a Willy Wonka-esque food tasting bonanza. Sadly, this isn't the case, and though the tablets do change the flavors of many foods to a degree, it's much more subtle than you'd probably like- no Snozzberries here. I found this to be the case for me, and I was hoping maybe my taste buds were maybe just a bit more dull, but my friend reported the same experience.<br /><br />I'm giving the product 2 stars, not because I hated the product, but because I was very let down with the experience and taking that fact into consideration, I don't think it's worth the money."
,,,,,These DO work and ARE cool. But... $18???,"Not worth the cost.<br /><br />I have only had these as free samples.<br /><br />I would pay $5 for a pack of 10. I may even be willing to pay $10.00 for a pack of 10.<br />Anything more than $10 is total robbery.<br /><br />So, obviously, $17.99 is WAY too much.<br /><br />This product is SUPER cool, and I LOVED how it worked.<br /><br />But, really? $18.00?<br /><br />Mberry should Market their product as a food enhancer, not as a ""Flavor tripping experience"".<br /><br />If Mberry does that, and prices their products reasonably, it WILL gain customers.<br /><br />Keeping there product around as a ""Flavor tripping experience"" will surely make it a passing fad."
,,,,,Works - Sort of,"I bought these tablets to try during lunch at work. Four of us each tried one tablet, tasted various foods, and noticed no difference. At that point, I gave up, but two intrepid friends went on to try four tablets each. They reported strange flavors in some of the foods they tried, but many items remained unaffected. Among those that were was a fruit punch Powerade reported to taste so sweet as to be very repulsive (like drinking pure sugar), and a cashew which apparently tasted like heaven. Most other affected foods were impacted negatively.<br /><br />In all, we were unimpressed with these tablets. While they did accomplish their flavor-changing purpose, it took a lot of tablets before any change was noticeable. And the experience, though fun, was rather pricey considering how many tablets were required. I was really hoping for a bigger impact."
,,,,,The effect is barely perceptible and definitely not worth trying more than once,"My girlfriend loves grapefruit, but I absolutely hate the stuff.  For her, it starts and ends very sweet, for me (and most people in the world) it starts sweet and ends bitter.  After we tried the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LXYA5Q"">Miracle Berry Fruit Tablets</a>tablet, there was a small difference for both of us.  For me, the bitterness subsided a small amount-- not even enough to worth mentioning.  For her, the grapefruit tasted like one of the ""sweetest"" ones she'd ever had.<br /><br />However, the real treat for both of us came with the lemons and limes.  Both of which tasted noticeably better.  However, the effect of a single tablet wore off completely within 5 minutes.  To be honest, I hoped each tablet would last closer to an hour, but as is, you're paying quite a bit per minute for these things (we paid ~$20 for ten tablets w/ shipping).<br /><br />Would I try it again?  After the tablets we have left are finished, I think not.  I already enjoy gala apples, bananas, watermelon, oranges, and strawberries without this tablet-- I can live a perfectly happy life without ever eating grapefruit, lemons or limes DIRECTLY (lemon and lime are fine in foods).<br /><br />If you're dead-set on trying these tablets, try it with some of your friends, but don't expect too much."
,,,,,AMAZING!,"This stuff is transcendence in a can!  I swear its that good.  The vanilla flavor is perfect, not too sweet to be artifical, and not too malted to taste funky.<br />Its velvety smooth and absolutely perfect around the holidays. (although we drink it year 'round.) Like other fans, I order it by the case for myself and my family at home, I take a can or two to work, and usually giving more away as parts of gift baskets and things like that.  Its perfect paired with fresh baked cookies or alone with a good book when you want to snuggle up and feel relaxed.<br />I dont drink coffee, so Im a connesiur of cocoa-type drinks...this stuff is amazing!  Get some and you will see exactly what I mean."
,,,,,Heaven in a cup!!!,"At my house, we call it Hot Vanilla.  This is the BEST hot chocolate-type drink I've ever tasted.  I am a lifelong chocoholic, but now I order Stephen's French Vanilla by the case because all the others pale in comparison, and I just don't want them anymore.  You won't regret springing for a case of it.  Makes a terrific gift too. Mmmmmmm......"
,,,,,Disappointed,"I read all the positive reviews and thought I'd give it try. First of all it tasted stale.  Secondly I had to use 5 spoonfuls just to get any taste and then it didn't taste like the chocolate. It tasted more like Olvatine.  For the young people out there, Ovaltine was drink in the 50's, Which I didn't like any better. We all have different tastes.  For my part I won't be ordering this again.  UPDATE: I bought the Milk chocolate at the same time and decided to try that.  It was delicious.  I can't explain the difference but I'd recommend the Milk Chocolate just stay away from the one with the marshmallows."
,,,,,The best hot chocolate in the world,Stephen's Hot Chocolate is the best hot chocolate in the world I won't drink any other hot chocolate. The French Vanilla Is my personal favorite.
,,,,,Best chocolate drink ever,"This has a very dark chocolate flavor that mixes quickly and smoothly in hot water. No chucks like most of the other brands. Milk chocolate is fine for those who enjoy that but for real chocolate lovers that enjoy the true flavor of dark chocolate, don't miss this."
,,,,,"Not if you've had the regular version, otherwise okay","I'm a huge Stephen's fan but I'd only ever had the regular Milk Choc hot cocoa.  Deciding to be a little more health conscious I thought I'd try the fat-free variety.  DON'T! :)  Okay, if you aren't expecting it to be like the regular version then go for it.  It's much better than other fat-free hot cocoa varieties but doesn't do justice to regular Stephen's Hot Cocoa.  I'm going back to the good stuff."
,,,,,Fantabulous,This product is out of this world - if you like chocolate and you like peppermint - you will fall in love with this.  I had it years ago and never could find it again until this past Christmas time at Costco as a seasonal item.  So when I found this I stocked up.<br />I love it..........
,,,,,Very good hot Cocoa,I ordered this as the price was certainly right (6 1lb cans for less than $30) and the reviews were good.<br /><br />This is certainly a step up in the hot cocoa market. Better than just about anything you can find in the supermarket. I certainly prefer hot chocolate - but it can be time-consuming to make and it's tough to heat milk and melt chocolate at work or in class.<br /><br />This is the perfect compromise for when you want that chocolate drink and aren't in a position to 'do it right'.<br /><br />Very good taste and dissolves well. I always use a little more than it says on the can - with some cocoa that means it won't all dissolve - this is not a problem here.<br /><br />Certainly recommended.
,,,,,Yummy!,"I purchased this product as a gift for my mom who simply loves this cocoa.  When the local supermarket where she purchased the cocoa stopped stocking it she figured that was the end of it.  Ha!  Little did she know that I would find a way to track it down on line.  And on Amazon!  She was surprised and pleased.  The price is good, as is the cocoa.  I would only be more happy if I could get an assortment."
,,,,,The best hot chocolate,This is my family's favorite hot cocoa brand. The kids favorite flavor if mint chocolate.
,,,,,Incredible Hot Chocolate with Raspberry,"I ran into this product at a bed and breakfast.  Unlike most hot chocolate mixes with another flavor component, the raspberry flavor in this is an equal partner with the chocolate.  You don't get just a hint of it that soon gets lost.  You taste the raspberry with the first sip and the last sip....very very enjoyable.  Highly recommend."
,,,,,"Stephen's Gourmet Hot Cocoa, Cherry Chocolate, 16-Ounce Cans (Pack of 6)","This is absolutely delicious.  Because it is in powder form, you can make it as strong or weak as your taste buds allow.  I add instant Folger's to mine, making it into a mocha.  That also cuts the sweetness.  It really DOES taste like chocolate covered cherries -- a treat I have loved since childhood!<br /><br />I get mine through the ""subscription program"" along with several other flavors from Stephen's.  The subscription program works well for me since I travel. You can change the frequency AND the address to which it is to be sent as needed."
,,,,,good not great,I was a little dissapointed. It tastes  good. It is just a little watery tasting. Land of the lakes is better. But they dont have sugar free. So for sugar free I can give a heads up on this product.
,,,,,amazing!,"i found the packets at walmart for 57 cents i believe, but when i went back a week later they didn't have anymore! i also checked cvs and walgreens and they didn't have it either. i was so happy i found it on amazon and in cans which i think is a better deal than packets because you get more product. this is definately the best hot chocolate i've ever had. the peppermint isn't over powering like most peppermint hot chocolates i've had. i'll definately be buying more when i run out!"
,,,,,The best!,"I absolutely love this stuff!  My Dad used to give us each a can (or two) for Christmas every year, and it was always a favorite.  I've never been able to find it where I live now, I should of known to check Amazon! By the way, I've never tasted a variety I didn't like, but I've never tried the reduced fat kind, either.  I also like to make it with coffee instead of water when I need a little boost, it almost makes coffee taste good (sorry, but there's nothing out there that can do that)."
,,,,,It  has a far eastern taste,"I like  Stephen`s  Gourmet Hot  Cocoa , White  Chocolate  Mix ,because to me  it taste like  Arabian  White  Chocolate ,the taste is  almost identical ,if it had a little  Arabian vanilla  it would  be a copy cat. This  cocoa  to me  has  alot of  class ,unlike the others this  Stephens white chocolate  mix has alot of  class .I just  have to  say  Thankyou  Stephen ,I really enjoy sipping white hot  cocoa  again.  A friend told  me how  delicious  this  cocoa  was ,I never imagined  how  delicious . I am  so  glad  I purchased  it,  THANKYOU STEPHEN , A customer  for  life !  Terry Merrill"
,,,,,Best Hot Chocolate ever,I purchased this for my girlfriend who loved this stuff over the Xmas period. Now she has a supply which should last several months.
,,,,,Best I ever tasted,Without a doubt this cannot be surpassed. I am always so conscientious about calorie count until I took a sip of this. I will just ration it for special moments. Even the cat's nose was twitching from the delightful scent. It is hard to believe that it was made in USA. If my daughter is lucky I might send her some at Christmas. It is a good thing I live alone or else I would have to hide it.
,,,,,Pretty good,"So I am a huge Chocolate Peanut Butter freak, and have been looking for a peanut butter cup cocoa for a while. I finally broke down and ordered this after a few months hemming and hawwing about it. Now I aadmit to not reading the directions the first cup and at first was like wow slightly chocolate water and added a few more spoonfuls of the mix to my cup and it improved but was not quite what i expected and this was made with water(I was at work and had little choice) The next day I deceided to try it again at home in my hot cocoa machine with milk and there was a GREAT improvement!! So as a result I'm going to try an experiment tonight and make a shake in the blender with the mix!!! I said im a peanut butter cup freak!!!"
,,,,,Stepens Candycane Cocoa,If you haven't tried the Stephens Candycane cocoa you need to try it  but only if you like chocolate and mint flavors.  It's great tasting.  The only problem is that I want it year around and it is only available in stores at Christmas.
,,,,,Great Hot Chocolate!,"I tried Stephen's Chocolate Mint truffle hot chocolate mix at a Church function and it was wonderful, I had to get some."
,,,,,Love it! Hard to find this at the grocery store,"I've tried them all and keep coming back to the Belgian chocolate.  A chocoholic's dream. I drink this every morning and this seem's to be the most economical way to buy it, 6 cans at a time."
,,,,,Stephen's Hot Candycane Cocoa is the best!,"We have been drinking Stephen's Candycane Cocoa for several years.  Our Walmart carries it at Christmas time, but they run out fast.  It's the candycane pieces in the cocoa that make it soo good!  You can make it as strong or weak as you like it, by adding more cocoa or more water than the directions say.  I like it a little stronger - it gives it a bold chocolate taste with a strong candycane kick!  I don't know what else to tell you except it is absolutely out of this world!  All you need is a cup, a spoon, hot water, and Stephen's Candycane Cocoa.  You're set, drink up!  Just remember not to use it all up in one setting!<br /><br />Honestly, the only thing I would change about this product is the number of cups of cocoa per can.  It calls for 3 1/2 rounded tablespoons of cocoa mix per 6 ounces of hot water.  When Sara and I make a 12 oz cup each and each have a refill, we can almost kill off one can in a sitting.  (Yes, it IS that good!)  I wish Stephen's could concentrate this or put it up in larger cans.<br /><br />I hope I have helped in your purchasing decision."
,,,,,Stephen's Gourmet Candycane Cocoa,"Well, I love hot cocoa but this is truly different. It literally has bits of candy cane mixed into the cocoa mix and it is a refreshing ""warm you from the inside out"" hot cocoa drink. If you are someone that isn't sold on peppermint in your hot cocoa you just have to try it. The peppermint is very subtle but very pleasing to the palate. Truly different from any hot cocoa that I have ever enjoyed."
,,,,,Deserves more than a 5-star review,My husband is a huge fan of hot cocoa.  I surprised him with a 6-pack of Stephen's Peanut Butter Cup Hot Cocoa.  It actually has little peanut butter cups in it.  They quickly melt into this delicious treat.  We highly recommend this product and will buy it again.
,,,,,Great even when made with water,"I originally received this Mint Truffle hot chocolate as a gift, and was a little bit dismayed that the instructions say to mix it with water, because in the past that always results in a weak flavor. Amazingly, that is not the case with this mix, even with no milk added this has a great rich, chocolate-mint taste.<br /><br />Because it doesn't require milk, I can keep it at work for a warm-up drink on cold office days. I usually put 4 teaspoons of mix in my <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002P6855Y"">Aladdin 16-Ounce Recycled and Recyclable Tumbler, Lily</a> then add hot water from the dispenser at work for a perfect mug of hot chocolate."
,,,,,Absolutely the BEST!!!,"I bought this hot chocolate at a grocery store because it looked interesting.  We like to drive around our neighborhood and look at the Christmas lights.  I always like to drink hot chocolate while enjoying this outing.  Oh My Gosh!  This hot chocolate was incredible. When I opened the can to make it, I saw pieces of Candycane candy in the chocolate powder. I made it the way that they suggested, with hot water, not milk.  It was so creamy with just the right amount of peppermint flavor.  There were no lumps and it was excellent to the last drop.  I am thrilled to see that they carry this on Amazon because I know that the grocery store only carried it for the holidays and the price on Amazon is much less than I paid."
,,,,,I agree!!,"These folks are right.  This stuff is very rich and we just use skim milk.  Richer than the expensive chocolate shavings we have splurged on in the past.  The tins go along ways too.  The per serving cost is a fraction of buying the individual packets at the grocery store of other brands, but I would pay more anyway because this stuff is so good.  We just had to order another case.  Try it with some coffee.  Mash it up in some vanilla ice cream. Seems like they could sell it for much more if they got rid of the dude's first name.  First name only brands really cheese up the product.  How about ""Cocoa Passions"" or ""Divine Cocoa"" or even, ""Serenity Now Cocoa"".  Anything would Glam up the product name a little. I am a builder, would you buy an expensive house from ""Kreg's Stately Mansions""? Nope.  Doesn't matter how choice the work is. I am sorry, Stephen, you do have a great product, I'll stop. Oh well, keep the prices low...Five stars, brother."
,,,,,Best Cherry Chocolate that I have come across.,I was looking for something to replenish one of my favorite Black Forest(Cherry Chocolate)Hot Cocao mixes and this one works quite well and tastes even better. Keep up the good work.
,,,,,Great tasting hot chocolate,I love Stephen's Gourmet Hot chocolate.  It arrived quickly and we have been enjoying it for at least a month now.
,,,,,"Not Ghirardelli, but not bad.",I just bought a six-pack of Stephen's Gourmet Hot Cocoa mix.  It's pretty good for the price.  My favorite will always be Ghirardelli -- but this does the trick in a pinch.
,,,,,Great Cocoa,"This is the perfect cocoa to sit by a fire/listen ot the rain/cuddle next to your loved ones. I had to order it on amazon, since it was only available in UT where I used to live. I'm so glad I ordered it!  Choc  Rasp is the best flavor but Chocolate Hazelnut, Chocolate Mint, and Milk Chocolate are also excellent."
,,,,,Very tasty - maybe a little too rich if making with milk,"I really enjoyed this, and will probably be purchasing other flavors as well (if they are re-stocked - it seems that most of them are sold out).  I wanted something a little better than what I find in my area grocery stores, and this was really good.  The first time we made it, it was with milk, and it was a little too rich for me (which I thought was impressive, especially as I was only using skim milk), so I've since moved to a combination of milk and water, and it tastes GREAT (and I'll probably still make it with just milk, after adjusting more towards that over time).  My house is known for hot cocoa (we have at least 7 options right now), but everybody who has had this has enjoyed it."
,,,,,Just what I wanted,Has just enough of the raspberry taste without being over bearing. Will purchase more in the future when my supple depletes.  I had trouble finding a good raspberry hot cocoa but now I know where to get it.  This site will be one of my favorites.
,,,,,Fantastically Delicious,"do you like dark chocolate?  wish you could find quality dark chocolate cocoa mix?  this is the real deal!  i have tried a few different ""dark"" chocolate mixes.  this one stands above others in it's smooth'ness and creamy quality.  nice and dark, add some honey or cinnamon and you'll have a fantastic cuppa cocoa."
,,,,,Horrible,"I ordered the No Sugar Added version. I usually like no sugar added or low sugar products - ice cream, yogurt, hot chocolate etc. But this one was terrible. Like the other reviewer, this tasted like ovaltine. I had to use like 5 spoons of the powder to get the taste. I don't know what to do with 5 other cans.. I will probably donate.."
,,,,,It's the Best,"I have tasted several Stephen's Gourmet products, but the Chocolate Raspberry is my favorite. It's creamy, smoothe and delicious.  I consider it my one splurge for myself.  I have a cup every morning and have now shared my favorite beverage with my son, who just cannot get enough of it.  He has created different recipes with it, one using ice cream.  I will stick to the original method.  It's the best hot cocoa mix I have ever tasted.  The aroma alone will draw you in.  I am often asked what is that wonderful smelling beverage.  Occasionally I will share in hopes they will purchase their own.  Stephen's Gourmet makes the best cocoa ever.  I will drink it as long as they continue to make it."
,,,,,Yuh-uh-um,"I love this stuff!  This is my favorite of the flavors I have tried.  I do feel like I have to add quite a bit of chocolate powder to get it to the flavor that I like, but that is okay.  I'd take this over any of the other stuff any day.  Swiss Miss is for the kids and this stuff is for me.  My husband loved the milk chocolate...until he tried the amaretto.  I just stick with this because I haven't found that I like the others as much.  Even though I don't like the others as much, all of the Stephen's cocoa that I have tried is the richest out there.  It doesn't taste like I mixed it with water at all."
,,,,,Good Cocoa!,"My wife absolutely adores this cocoa. Very easy to make, just hot water which for her is a plus.<br />She prefers this over Ghiradelli."
,,,,,Awesome!,"This really is the BEST hot chocolate I have ever tried! And at this price, a terrific deal. It was delivered fast and as described. A+"
,,,,,hazelnut!!,"I love hazelnut smell in my coffee so I figure it will also be great to have it in a cup of hot chocolate. Unfortunately this product doesn't give me a strong hazelnut feeling, just a little. Well it is still a good one."
,,,,,Delicious,"Enjoy the taste, milk free product. Ilike milk in hot cocoa, just can't see adding powdered milk. B U T, it is considerably less expensive at a local chain grocery store in my area. I prefer a mix of this and Ghiradelli ""Double Choclate""."
,,,,,So so,"This is an OK hot cocoa. I had been using Land O'Lakes product, but wanted to try this for a change. The taste is comparable, but the portions in each packet is smaller. I still like Land O'Lakes hot cocoa better."
,,,,,Real Candy Cane Shavings In This!,"This is the best candy cane cocoa, and it has real bits of candy cane. Don't worry, it's not totally sharp... Most of it dissolves in the liquid.<br /><br />I mix my cocoa with a battery operated frother, which uses every single bit of cocoa, so there is not a single bit of cocoa on the bottom.<br /><br />After, it's really a pepperminty cup of chocolate that is very lovely. Refreshing, I'd say.<br /><br />This is a must with milk, though I think you can do it with water... but milk is best to get the full flavor effect."
,,,,,Stephens Gourmet NSA Hot Chocolate,"If you've read the other reviews about Stephens hot chocolate, well, the same for this one. It tastes rich and good. I'm diabetic type II and there is nothing else in hot chocolate that comes close without being loaded with sugar. Diabetes really narrows the field when it comes to things you can eat or drink so am glad that Stephens makes this product. In every shiny white cloud there is a bit of soot hiding somewhere. The lump of coal is that they don't sell it in Canada and won't ship across the border. That is so sad. Canadians having to deal with yet another item they can't get. Not sure why this is whether US government, Canadian border guards with a grudge, or Stephens just don't want extra paper work. Thank goodness for friends who go on trips down south and bring it back for me. Good stuff."
,,,,,Stephen's Gourmet Hot Cocoa,"Purchased original can at Walmart. Of course, during the holidays - it wasn't always there. I got on Amazon.com and found a really good deal on it. My family & I LOVED it thru the holidays and will be taking a canister of it with us when we go camping and using it year round. Good good product & taste!"
,,,,,Yummy and warm in my tummy!!!,"Make per directions and use half & half to top off for richer taste, maybe a little whipped cream topper and you have have a melt in the chair, soft spot, where visions of sugar plums and the like may begin to dance in your heads.  Yummy and so delicious.  I've purchased twice, first at near $13-each for two, then near $5-each for six of them - chalk it up to when you're buying!  I should make clear that I do not regret my initial purchase, I was merely showing an example when timing can play a part in the value of this kind of transaction.  Please allow me to elaborate that I initially selected Chadwell Retail sellers as I was trying the product, and it seemed reasonable given the value for two to select them to complete my purchase.  I have no qualms with the seller and would openly consider their services on this open market again as the purchase made sense.  Thank you for reading this far and for your consideration in advance."
,,,,,Soooo good!!!  Perfect!!!,"I also tried the Cherry Chocolate and Peanut Butter Cup flavors and they are amazing!  So thick and creamy, especially if you make it with a little milk!  What I really like is that they aren't overly sweet, and that it mixed together very well, unlike most brands that just clump up and stick to the spoon.  Definitely my favorite hot chocolate!  The cider flavors are great too!"
,,,,,Stephens Hot Hazelnut Hot Chocolate,"This is simply the best hot chocolate mix I have ever used.  The flavor is wonderful, whether you like hazelnut or not (the hazelnut flavor is subtle.) It tastes like you made it from scratch rather than a mix.  It's difficult to find, so locating it on Amazon was a great find."
,,,,,Totally hooked....,"I ordered this about a year ago and have repeatedly ordered it since. Everyone I have shared it with has loved it so much they have also gotten right on Amazon and ordered it also. I mix it in my coffee, and when I am feeling particularly naughty, top it off with whipping cream. Delicious!!!!!"
,,,,,A definite favorite,Delicious taste---just like a chocolate covered cherry.  I especially like it added to coffee. Will give as gifts this year!
,,,,,Not exactly sure how to rate this,"I bought this mostly based on the reviews. I really wanted hot chocolate from Stephen's, but amazon didn't have it. I stumbled across this and thought I would try it. It is white, even though ""cocoa"" is in the title...in case you didn't figure that out! I did realize it wasn't chocolate, but didn't really know what to expect.<br /><br />The best way I can describe it is that it tastes like a vanilla milkshake, but hot! I happen to love vanilla milkshakes way more than chocolate ones (but hate drinking milk, go figure), but somehow, I haven gotten used to this product after about a week. I have 6 cans now, so I have many more opportunities to try! It may just be that I sort of mentally ""expect"" hot chocolate and I have to retrain my slow brain! It is interesting and different, and I still drink it, and almost like it, but still would pick pick the hot chocolate over this. Definitely worth a try if you like vanilla."
,,,,,So good I order it online!,"This is my absolute FAVORITE hot chocolate! Stephen's Gourment Hot Cocoa is all over Utah, but I have been unable to find it anywhere else.  I love it so much that I even pay shipping and handling so that I can enjoy it all the way on the east coast, too.  It's SO good! I look forward to it every year."
,,,,,The best hot cocoa mix ever!!!,"This is by far the best hot chocolate I've ever tasted!  All the other flavors are good, especially the raspberry, but this one is my favorite.  I use just hot water, and it tastes rich and creamy!"
,,,,,Great taste,"I am on my second can, I ordered the case of 6 and I keep it hidden from the grandkids.  I never thought you could have good tasting dark hot chocolate.  I just heat a cup of water in the microwave for 80 seconds and add the chocolate.  It dissolves completely with stirring."
,,,,,The richest tasting hot cocoa I've ever tasted.,I bought a can of Stephen's hot cocoa over 5 years ago not realizing how good it was going to be. After I drank the first few cups I was hooked and could not find it anywhere again. I ordered it directly from the company for several years and even took several cans to the UK with me when we moved over taking care to make them last. I'm very glad to find this brand on amazon as it's rich flavor surpasses all others I've tried. If you love dark chocolate this is it. I haven't tasted the other flavors but would be willing to bet they are just as good. I may order some for stocking stuffers for Christmas.<br /><br />I also like that this comes in a can with a scoop so you can make it more or less chocolatey as you like or adjust the amount of powder for the size of your mug/cup. The pre-measured packs that most hot cocoa comes in are supposed to be for an 8oz cup and most mugs are 12oz so 2 packets is too strong and one only fills your mug half way. If you'd like very rich hot chocolate you can use 1/2 milk and 1/2 water. You really don't need marshmallows.
,,,,,Chocolate Heaven,What can I say??? This is delicious on any day.  Sip til your heart's content.
,,,,,BEST hot choco with water!,I love hot chocolate but don't drink milk: this is THE BEST hot chocolate I've tasted using just plain water.
,,,,,No better cocoa,"I don't think there is a better hot cocoa (especially at this price)on the market than Stephen's. It lasted me the entire winter and made for awesome x-mas gifts. Now everyone I know buys it and I'm even happier to be spreading it around. My only issue is that I wish they would have a mixed pack; a 6 pack of mint, hazelnut, regular, dark, vanilla and irish cream would really be perfect!"
,,,,,My Favorite Cocoa!,"I love all of the cocoa in the Stephen's Gourmet line, but I think this one is my favorite. The other people in my family have different favorites (we all love Stephen's), but we all agree the Belgian Dark ranks at the top for the best all-purpose drinking cocoa.<br /><br />I like my cocoa with a little added milk in it, and starting out with a good DARK cocoa allows me to achieve that milky texture without sacrificing that rich chocolate flavor.<br /><br />As an added bonus, Stephen's cocoa is labeled ""Gluten Free"" -- taking the guesswork out of choosing a cocoa for those of us who must avoid gluten-containing additives such as barley malt (a common ingredient in chocolate)."
,,,,,French Vanilla Cocoa-- Wow!,"This stuff has an absolutely incredible taste. Very smooth and you can mix it with water or milk. If you like vanilla and you haven't tasted this stuff you are missing out!<br /><br />Get it, it's worth it!"
,,,,,Delicious hot chocolate,"I love Stephens Chocolate Raspberry. It is the best I've ever had. Other brands I've tried were bitter and just not as tasty.<br />It stirs in smooth, no lumps.<br />My order arrived quickly, just as promised. I'm a very happy consumer of this product and the supplier."
,,,,,Good Amaretto Flavor,"I tried this unknown manufacturer ""Stephen's"" and was pleasantly surprised. It had a good amaretto flavor along with the chocolate. The aroma is good. I use it in my coffee for a homemade mocha taste."
,,,,,delicioso!,"The belgian dark chocolate is the best hot cocoa I've ever had so far and my 4 year daughter agrees.  She pinicky about her chocolates preferring only to eat dark chocolate and this dark choco. hot cocoa sure passed the test with her.  She prefers to drink it with just warm water instead of milk as using milk makes it taste like ""milk chocolate"".  I do, too!"
,,,,,Taste is individual,"I LOVE dark chocolate so when I saw the reviews of this kind I figured I'd give it a try.  Now taste is a matter of individuality so I'll give you the difference in this Belgian Dark Chocolate by Stephen's and my usual Nestle Rich Chocolate:<br /><br />Belgian:150 calories per serving,  serving is 3Tlb mix and only 3/4 cup water or milk.<br />vs<br />Nestle: 80 calories w/water per serving, serving is 2Tlb mix and a WHOLE cup of water.<br /><br />Belgian: Total Fat 3.5g,  Sodium 240mg, Total Carbs 27g, Sugars 22g, Protein 2g<br /><br />Nestle: Total Fat 3g, Sodium 170mg, Total Carbs 15g, Sugars 12g, Protein 1g<br /><br />I first mixed the Belgian mix as directed but couldn't finish it due to the fact that it was just too sweet for me.  It IS creamy, but just too sweet.  When I use the Nestle I only use 1/2Tlb and a squirt of dark choc. syrup and I'm happy with that.  So I then mixed the Belgian as I do with the Nestle and it's ok.  I can't rave about it due to the fact that it's higher in sugars and sodium than the Nestle and if you are trying to watch those things you might want to take that into consideration.<br />To me dark chocolate shouldn't be as sweet(or sweeter) as milk chocolate, I'm sure that's why I prefer dark chocolate.  I'll even add some unsweetened chocolate powder to my mix at times.<br /><br />But as I've said it's all in your individual taste, I just wish they would have listed the Nutrient Facts along with their ingredients.<br />Not bad, just not all that great if you don't like REALLY sweet hot chocolate."
,,,,,Liquid Heaven,"Stephen's is absolutely the BEST hot chocolate I have ever tasted!  It is so creamy and delicious.  Every flavor I've ever tried is excellent.  My whole family loves it.  I don't know any stores in the area that sell it, so we are thrilled to be able to order it through Amazon."
,,,,,Hot Cocoa,I like the taste of chocolate and mint. It mixed well when I added Hot water. Next I might try a warm milk.
,,,,,Great tasting but unhealthy.,This product contains partially hydrogenated oils which is very detrimental to your health. I would rather pay more for a product which does not contain transfats.
,,,,,Not a gourmet product,"I bought a case of this stuff (Dark Chocolate) based on the positive reviews. Big mistake. This is half a step above Swiss Miss. It is definitely not up to the level of Archer (Target brand), Twinings (some grocery stores), or Cadbury (overseas or very few grocery stores).<br /><br />Cocoa is the 4th ingredient. No chocolate as an ingredient. Bunch of fats and fillers. Archer has cocoa as the second ingredient and chocolate as the 4th and 5th ingredient. That's more like it.<br /><br />Stephen's chocolate has bad/very light color, little aroma, thin, doesn't dissolve. A very disappointing purchase."
,,,,,Awful!!!,"I love hot chocolate and am always trying new ones, but this was the absolute worst cherry hot chocolate I have ever tasted!! I was hoping it would be good so I bought 2 cans. After 1 cup, I threw both cans away. If you want a really great cherry hot chocolate, add 3-4 teaspoons of the cherry juice from a jar of maraschino cherries to your favorite milk hot chocolate. YUM!!! Add more if you use dark hot chocolate."
,,,,,Does not live up to the hype~,"Ended up with a case of the Stephen's chocolate rasberry and a case of the Stephen's French Vanilla<br />""cocoa.""  I really wanted to believe the 100% positive feedback on here, but you should never believe<br />what you read, right?<br />I guess the 1st thing I look for in a cocoa is that the liquid has some body to it. This seemed just<br />watery and weak....it looks like a no-fat soymilk.<br />I added MORE than the recommended amount for the serving size and it was still just so-so.<br /><br />I am just not impressed with the way the powder globbed together and clumped and stuck to the spoon~yuk.<br />$5 a can for 12 serving when you can get the packets of the standard cocoa for 99 cents on sale for<br />the same amount of servings?<br />Granted, Amazon's price is better than the manufactures website since there is NO shipping through<br />here and shipping is at a premium through Stephen's Gourmet.<br />I would say unless you have tried this somehow elsewhere first, do not bother wasting your money to buy<br />6lbs of cocoa mix at one time. You might end up doing what I will have to do when you don't like it.<br />sigh<br />give it away~"
,,,,,Has Partially Hydrogenated Coconut Oil,"Unfortunately I didn't notice this until I received the product.  I guess I'll be giving it away to friends & family that don't mind it.<br /><br />Tastes artificial like coffee creamer.<br /><br />Ingredients<br />Sugar, Sweet Whey, Maltodextrin, Partially Hydrogenated Coconut Oil, Cocoa (Processed With Alkali), Corn Syrup Solids, Non-fat Dry Milk, Natural & Artificial Flavor, Sodium Caseinate (A Milk Derivative), Salt, Mono and Diglycerides, Dipotassium Phosphate, Carrageenan, Soy Lecithin."
,,,,,Too sweet,"This review is for their dark chocolate. Most who like dark chocolate are into the pure chocolate taste and its health effects...not the sweetness! Just as with good coffee, its not necessary to make it overly sweet or flavored since there aren't that many sweet-freak-fatties drinking it. The ancient Incas didn't use any sugar at all with their chocolate!<br /><br />I did give it an extra star just for having a dark chocolate drink product since their aren't many companies that even make one, so kudos to them for that."
,,,,,Wanna drink vanilla baby formula? Then this is for you....,"Ended up with a case of the Stephen's chocolate rasberry and a case of the Stephen's French Vanilla<br />""cocoa.""  I really wanted to believe the 100% positive feedback on here, but you should never believe<br />what you read, right?<br />I guess the 1st thing I look for in a cocoa is that the liquid has some body to it. This seemed just<br />watery and weak....it looks like a no-fat soymilk.<br /><br />It kind of makes me think of baby formula...........the other reviewer who said like a hot vanilla<br />milkshake is close to describing it but it is not creamy enough in my opinion to qualify as such.....<br /><br />I added MORE than the recommended amount for the serving size and it was still just so-so.<br /><br />I am just not impressed with the way the powder globbed together and<br />clumped and stuck to the spoon~yuk.<br />$5 a can for 12 serving when you can get the packets of the standard cocoa for 99 cents on sale for<br />the same amount of servings?<br />Granted, Amazon's price is better than the manufactures website since there is NO shipping through<br />here and shipping is at a premium through Stephen's Gourmet.<br />I would say unless you have tried this somehow elsewhere first, do not bother wasting your money to buy<br />6lbs of cocoa mix at one time. You might end up doing what I will have to do when you don't like it.<br />sigh<br />give it away~"
,,,,,Surprise...bait and switch.,The company does not operate properly I ordered the French Vanilla.  That is the selection I clicked on and I recieved the White Chocolate. They should contact a buyer BEFORE shipping a substitution.
,,,,,Warning: Make sure you're buying the right flavor.,"I bought some of this chocolate for my mother who can't have much caffeine. She used to drink Nestle hot cocolate, fat free-caffeine free, but they stopped making it in canisters so you have to buy it only the expensive way in the puches. Anyway, I saw the milk chocolate flavor of Stephen's on here, looked up info and found out it was low in caffeine so I ordered a BUNCH of it for mom. 110 bucks worth. We got it today and I opened it up and all of the cans were minct chocolate flaovor. I thought they sent the wrong kind... I checked my order and found out I indeed ordered the wrong flavor. See, the canisters look EXACTLY the same except the milk chocolate flavor has a small brown strip in the middle and the mint chocolate has a small green strip in the middle. That's the ONLY difference between the canisters. And since the initial thumbnail images on Amazon are so small, it's easy to not see such a little difference. yes, its' technically my fault, but they need more difference in artwork on the canisters. Not only that, Amazon would not take it back, even though it all was unopened, because its ""food"". and the company who makes it basically said ""Sorry, but it sucks to be you"". So here I sit, 110 dollars worth of hot chocolate which no one can use."
,,,,,CHANGED THE FORMULA - TOTALLY DIFFERENT PRODUCT,"This is a horrible step by POP to change the formula.  They now use cheap 'maltose' (barley malt sugar - HIGH glycemic 105) in place of most of the honey, and only a miniscule amount of the herbs which were so effective in the original formula.  HUGE disappointment, and shame on POP for corporatizing and cheapening their once-outstanding products.<br /><br />As with the other reviewer, I once recommended this to everyone.  Now I will go out of my way to steer clear of recommending anything by Prince of Peace.  Try Source Naturals Wellness homeopathic cough formulas - they're much cleaner and work pretty well."
,,,,,I LOVE MY HONEY LACQUAT,"I LOVE THE HONEY LACQUAT, I HAVE BEEN USING IT FOR YEARS, AND I AM SHARING IT WITH OTHER'S"
,,,,,R. Elliott,"Price was misleading, once the high shipping rate was added, the tea was no longer the 'deal' it was promoted to be. Although once it finally arrived, it was half decent tea, but NOT worth the shipping and the wait, will go to my local tea house next time."
,,,,,Jeremiah's coffees rule!,"I love really good coffee and, in fact, go to great lengths to brew the best i.e. freshly ground beans, purest water, immaculate coffee maker, etc. I have been extremely happy with virtually all of Jeremiah's coffees; and, I have a number of different beans on-hand at all times. The Breakfast Blend is stand-out. Also, try this and their Fogbuster. You will not be disappointed. AAAA++++"
,,,,,"Excellent taste, excellent price for organic.","An organic coffee for less than $6 a pound (with subscribe and save) with great taste, you can't beat that. This is my only coffee choice for now. I would rather have this than Starbuck's any day of the week."
,,,,,Disappointed,I have orderred Jeremiah's Pick Coffee Organic Breakfast Blend Whole Bean Coffee more than 5 times however the last lot I received with really bad quality. Lots of broken coffee beans and very oily. Hope the seller can check what happen...I may not try it again.
,,,,,My Daily Brew,"This coffee is phenomenal for the taste and value. I'm on subscribe and save and this is my daily brew, I typically go though 2 lbs a month or so. This coffee has an excellent flavor and is not bitter or spicy, beats Starbucks breakfast blend hands down."
,,,,,Stale,I was really disappointed in this coffee.  It's a darker roast than i was expecting and the bag has no expiration date.  My coffee tasted quite stale and old.
,,,,,Senses Surprised!,"My senses were surprised by the aroma of the glistening beans as well as the satisfying flavor of the brew.<br />I substituted this bean when Amazon dropped Starbucks Sumatra from their Subscribe & Save program.<br />Now I would never go back.<br />I use a ceramic cone drip filter into a Nissan Thermal Carafe for our brew.<br />For an organic bean, this Breakfast Blend is top of the heap.<br />{{* *}}"
,,,,,"Great price, great taste",This is the best tasting coffee at the most reasonable price for organic! Smooth taste.  Perfect for your morning brew.
,,,,,This is the best coffee,"You get a fresh, bold, thick flavor from this coffee. Never bitter. I am addicted. I blend it with there decaf at night so that I can sleep. Great price."
,,,,,"Great coffee, great price!",This has become our new coffee of choice for the mornings.  It's a good price for a solid cup of organic coffee.  Beans are medium roast and very fragrant.
,,,,,Great coffee!,The organic breakfast blend has an appealing mild flavor. It is very reasonably priced for an organic coffee. I will definitely be buying more in the future!
,,,,,Jeremiahs Organic Breakfast Blend.,"A great coffee, that is medium roast, not bitter. Yet it tastes as good as it smells. It is also well bagged to maintain optimum freshness.mmmmmmm"
,,,,,Good Coffee!,"This is my second batch of coffee from Jeremiah's Pick. This is good coffee but not as good as their Foglifter. However, it you like a mild yet tasteful coffee, you will like this. I prefer a bit stronger brew though hence my preference for the Foglifter."
,,,,,"OK, not that flavorful","The Jeremiah's 5lb bag of Ethiopian coffee is often sold-out, so I've been looking for a good roast with similar value. I'm OK with a more medium roast, but this coffee seems more mild then I would have expected. Still a good deal, but I wish it had more flavor. In general, I've had good luck with Jeremiah's brand, although sometimes the bags are not as well-sealed as they should be."
,,,,,"So Far, So Good","I liked everything about the transaction, although I am sure that I ordered ground but I received whole bean. I especially liked the price and the speed of delivery."
,,,,,What can i say its good..,Cinnamon toast have always been a favorite for me and my family.. Its good and crispy if u dont let it sog in milk to much..<br /> As far as price value its a pretty darn good deal.. i think at costco u can get a similar price for there twin pack according to my aunt but ... i dont have a membership with them so i stick to amazon.. ENJOY.. just keep in mind just as other cereals it has lots of sugars and proccesed carbs so eat wise and stay sharp.
,,,,,great!!,"We love this cereal. I purchased this product and everything was great! The cereal was good until Jan. 2012, but of course my family has already eaten the cereal gone in like two weeks. We do eat these as a snack more than anything. I would recommend buying this cereal."
,,,,,cinn. tst crunch,As usual this cereal tastes so good!  The boxes came quickly and timely.  I wish this deal didn't stop!
,,,,,"Tasty on its own, but a bit too much sugar","This is one of the few cereals that I find very tasty just on its own as a snack or as dessert. Crunchy with a  nice cinnamon flavor. It is very sweet, however - I prefer to mix it with something such as Cheerios when eating it for breakfast since the sugar can be overpowering as you get close to the bottom of the bowl.<br /><br />Good value if you can get it on an Amazon price dip and/or when they run a promo."
,,,,,Cinnamon,Love the cinnamon taste but way too sweet. I gave this to my Mother who loves sweets and she said she couldn't eat it either. Need to promote the cinnamin dlavor and cut the sugar
,,,,,Slurp,"I was crazy about these as a kid! They are tubes simply filled with a flavored powdered candy that has tons of sugar in it. I first tried their cute little wax paper tubes that were about 8 inches long when I was about 7 years old. Goes to figure that my 8 year old is nuts about these now. We used to take our change to the local conveniance store. They came in grape, cherry, and orange, lime and other fruit flavors. Those were very good. But there are also the big 21 inch thick plasitc tubes that hold the equivelant of 20 of the paper ones. This offer gets you a case of 48 packs of 3 tubes each in grape, maui punch, cherry, and orange flavors. Lots of fun from the Willy Wonka factory."
,,,,,Pixy Stix shows you a tunnel to the past,"There has been no alteration to the formula.  These confectionery treats taste just like they did in 1978 when I first used to pour them into my mouth.  And since they are wrapped in smaller packages of three sticks (oh sorry, stix), they can be savoured (savored for my southern friends) for a lot longer."
,,,,,A Dog's Best Friend,"These fruit filled rawhide donuts are wonderful. Our yellow lab goes nuts when we just take one out of the pantry! Best eaten outside or on the kitchen floor, not carpeting,  because little pieces of the fruit do drop out during the feast. Our dog loves the fruity part so much he licks them up!<br />A dog may be man's best friend, but these are definitely a dog's best friend!  Can't recommend them enough!"
,,,,,My dogs love it!,Easy to follow directions. The grass grew fast and strong. My dogs are eating it right now and I know it safe and healthy!
,,,,,Guinea Pig Grass,"I bought this for my Guinea Pig and he LOVES it.<br /><br />Its insanely easy to grow. It seems like it grows an inch by the second. 1 square will definitely last me for more than a few weeks.<br /><br />If you're looking to grow your own wheat grass, look no further, this stuff is awesome."
,,,,,Not like the wheatgrass in stores,"Only one store in my area, Sprouts, sells wheatgrass in their produce section. Whole Foods sells it, but it is a goodly distance from my house so I only get wheatgrass from them once in a great while. I have a bunny who enjoys wheatgrass as a treat, so I go to Sprouts to get it for her, but wanted to grow my own since it is expensive and requires frequent shopping trips. So I bought these kits and decided to grow it myself. First I have to say I was impressed at how quickly they shipped my order. So I planted the seeds on Friday and by Sunday night, I had wheatgrass sprouts like crazy. The instructions are clear and easy to follow, and deliver abundant grass as promised.<br /><br />I have to say, though, that the grass doesn't look at all like the wheatgrass in stores. The blades are way taller (8 inches) and about twice the thickness of the wheatgrass I am used to buying for my bunny. I took pictures but discovered that my camera's memory card doesn't fit this new computer, so I can't show prospective buyers a picture of it. Rats. Since bunnies have sensitive digestive systems and you have to be careful what you feed them, I don't feel safe feeding this grass to her. I can't return it because I aready cracked open the kit and grew grass from one of the three seed kits. The grass is probably fne, but as a bunny owner, I want other bunny owners to know that this grass isn't like the wheatgrass in stores, jut so they aren't surprised and disappointed like I was."
,,,,,Love this Pet Grass Kit!,I was having trouble finding pet grass consistently in my area and decided to take a chance using a grow kit. The kit was very easy to use and the grass grew like crazy. Since I have only one cat I am now using about 1/3 of planting soil and seeds at a time and this works out great. I highly recommend this product.
,,,,,"Bright flavor, smooth on the palate","I tasted this Matcha from Rishi the first time today. The flavor is bright, assertive and fresh. It mixes nicely into both hot and cold liquids, leaving no clumps of tea at the bottom of my glass after it was whisked. The tea powder is fine, giving it smoothness, no grittiness or grainy feel. I had it both in water and with milk; in both the flavor was not muddied. The flavor is more intense (bold) than most Matcha I've had, making others seem bland by comparison. Nothing off-putting, just seems more concentrated. It has a good crisp green color, and each packet holds about one tablespoon of Matcha. I am glad this order was for a pack of 2 because I can see myself going through one box quickly."
,,,,,healthy refreshing tea for summer,I love it. Tastes great and it is very convenient to use. My husband drinks that in the car instead of soda or juice &lt;just pour the powder to 32oz water bottle and shake well - directions on the box say to use 500ml(16.9oz) but the tea is really strong so we use 1L bottle)> my kids love it I love it. In Whole Food 1 box costs $20 + tax. Here you can get 2 boxes for the price if you use all promotions (currently 35% off) still quite expensive but well worth it!
,,,,,Great tasting but a bit pricey .,"This is a great tasting tea. I know it is a very healthy and nutritious tea. But in order to have one of these a day I have to be willing to spend at least $60 a month for this tea. That's two dollars a pop and after it ads up I simply can't justify the expense.<br /><br />I mean, for crying out loud, it's a sixteen ounce cup of tea. I know people spend more at Starbucks for something less healthy but I just can't afford to have this everyday. I can use that sixty bucks for a lot of other things. In fact, I decided to use the sixty dollars and buy dark green leafy vegetables at the supermarket along with other nutritious vegetables. Actually, I only need to spend a fraction of that amount per month and I get a lot more food.<br /><br />I know the polyphenols are supposed to be the highest quality in Rishi green tea but I will stick to buying Kirkland brand (Costco) or Treasure Island's green tea and save quite a bit of money.<br /><br />An acquaintance of mine told me about this tea and how it was really good for the immune system. Due to my challenges with illness and deciding to follow the advice of a person who spoke highly of the health benefits of this tea I decided to buy it. Unfortunately, I get blood work done on a regular basis and after nine weeks there was no noticeable change/improvement to justify the expense of this product. It did nothing to improve my health and the lack of improvement in my blood work supports this. So I am no longer going to buy it. I would buy it if I could pay around $20 for a month's supply (for just one tea serving daily), but not $60. It's not worth it.<br /><br />The only reason I'm giving this product four stars is because it does taste very good. Especially with a few droplets of liquid Stevia extract added to the mixture."
,,,,,Don't bother,"First, the product pictured is not what you get.<br /><br />What you really get is are tiny packets called ""sticks"" suitable for flavoring bottled water. The box doesn't even say what size bottle it is sized for.<br /><br />I'm not keeping it so I can't tell you how it tastes."
,,,,,Y U M M Y...........B U T......I ' V E......T A S T E D.......B E T T E R,"I waited quite a while before following my impuslse to buy SMOKED SALMON AND SPINACHE MOUSSE, manufactured by GOURMETFOODSTORE.  Of course, it's expensive, and I ahd to save up for it.  And it's quite caloric, as well.  However, the picture of this gourmet treat finally DID get to me, and...after returning to this picture and this product several time.....couldn't resist it any longer.  For me, it was my ""royal treat"", to celebrate the Royal Wedding of Prince William and Kate Middleton!<br /><br />Well, my package arrived a bit after the wedding, (today, actually) --but that's because I ordered it a bit after the wedding, (May 6, to be exact.)  I kept reminding myself how expensive this really is, and how even the Queen saves money whenever, and wherever, she can....but it was no good.  I had to at least TRY this stuff...at least once...<br /><br />The package, marked ""Perishable"", had stood out in my hallway for a few hours, as I was out this morning.  Upon opening the outer cardboard box, then the inner styrofoam box, (repleate with cold-bags, to keep the pershable food inside fresh),  I came across a small brown-cardboard box which held my Smoked Salmon Mousse.  Inside, was not one big package, as I had expected, but, instead -- to my delight -- sixt small black plastic tubs!  It seems, happily, that no matter how much you order of this Somoked Salmon Mousse, it will always be packed in these elegant little black plastic tubs.  The black contrasts nicely with the Smoked Salmon Mousse peeking through both sides of the large yellow label, that almost -- but not quite -- covers the food within.  The label says ""Terroirs d'Antan"" in big letterss, and I take it this means ""land"" of Antan, (and not ""terrors"" therefrom),<br />as ""terre"" means ""land"" in French.  Three ducks on one side and one rabbit on the other side of the central ""Terroir's d'Antan"" are ""inhabiting"" the yellow label, and we can see, in the far right distance, a huge building that looks like a French chateau -- and, indeed, right below this, in smaller letters, are the words,<br />""The selection 'Terroirs d'Antan' revives ancient recipes from the vearious terroirs of France.  Enjoy.""  But further down the label, it is revealed that the product was 'Made in USA - Distrib by Optimus, Inc., Miami Fl  33138.<br /><br />The larger box in which this individual serving, (actually, containing 3 servings -- 7 ounces), black plastic box came, described the contents as being ""Packed in Aspic"".  And so it is.  When the vaccum-packing, transparent plastic covering is removed, there still is another transparent layer to be removed.  My own experience with ""aspic"" had heretofore been, mainly, with learning of the title of a movie, ""A Dandy In Aspic"", starring the late, (and really great), Laurence Harvey.  I have yet to see the movie -- and have never, really, known what 'aspic' is, exceptthat it is some sort of foodstuff.  Well -- I discovered, upon taking what must be aspic off the top op of the salmon mousse, that it is similar to the temporary, plastic 'dots' that are sometimes used to keep products on cardboard backings, but are (somewhat) easily removed.  A type of transparent jello, actually -- about 1/8 inch thick.<br /><br />Well, finally I had the mousse in front of me, and it was time to eat it!<br /><br />The flavour was milder rhan I had expected -- perhaps because ""Cream Cheese"" is the first ingredient.  The smoked salmon flavour DOES come through, on occasion, and it is a nice, dark, smoked salmon flavour, indeed!  But there is far too little of this wonderfully rich smoked salmon flavour here.  (Maybe my taste buds came upon a ""pocket"" of the salmon that had not thoroughly mixed with the cream cheese.  In any event, this product should have been labled as ""Cream Cheese and Salmon Mousee"", because ""cream cheese"" is the first ingredient listed, and ""smoked salmon"" is the eighth ingredient listed, (out of 17 ingredients), and ""spinach"" is the fourteenth.  (This product was made in the USA, remember -- and if I remember correctly, ingredients here must be listed in descending order.  But -- does this<br />""in size"" order apply to titles too?  If not, it should...<br /><br />The smoked salmon mousse has, again, a very MILD flavour.  it tastes very UNsimilar to the NY-type ""lox"" I had hoped it would.  Here, the amount of cream-cheese SO overwhelms the amount of smoked salmion, that it ALMOST tastes like exotically spiced, and flavoured, cream cheese!<br /><br />The little black ""tubs"", however, are definitely re-usable.  Of a size similar to restaurant trays for artificial sweetner, they are happily made of ""No. 5"" plastic.  According to an ""Organic Gardening"" article I read a while back, ONLY No. 5, or No. 6 plastic are safe to reuse.  So, these little black tubs can be used to hold sugar and artificial sweetener packets, stray coins, business cards, tea-bags, or any other similar object(s).  They can also be used as ""portion-control"" containers, as they hold not-too-much, and not-too-little of any food -- including, (for reference), about five rounded tablespoons of tuna spre<br />trays for<br /><br />""Vita"" foods, (available in New York's Waldbaum's supermarkets, and probably other areas as well, sells a someked salmon and cream-cheese spread, at 8 ounces for under $3.  Ir does not have spinach, chives, eggs, tomato, or many of the other ingredients in this Smoked Salmon Mousse, sold by GourmetFoodStore. It comes in a white, round plastic tub.  As it has more smoked slamon in it, it tastes more like smoked salmon to me.  As it's kind of inconvenient for me to go to a land-based store, I certainly hope Amazon will offer this VITA product, and others, (like their herring in wine sauce), soon.  otherwise, I'll save up for, and load up on, this Vita product when next I go to Walbaum's.  The 'Smoked Salmon and Spinach Mousse Pate - All Natural,"" being reviewed here, DOES have more ""snob"" appeal, and DOES come with those nice little space-saving black tubs.  But, unlike the Vita smoked salmon and cream cheese spread, it has more smoked-salmon taste.  And that, when all is said and done, in the end, the main thing that matters in foods, doesn't it?<br /><br />P.S.  One More Plus:  The ""GourmetFoodStore"" catalogue which is included with every pruchase is an education in gourmet food, all by itself.  Did you know HOW MANY types of smoked salmon there are?  HOW many types of caviar?  Whether you buy anything (else) from ""GourmetFoodStore"", this catalogue is not only mouth-watering...but very educational!  Made on fine ""slick"" paper, and filled with beautiful cloured photos, (and also high gourmet-food prices), it is a ""gourmet"" catalogue in more ways than one!  Thanks, GourmetFoodStore!<br /><br />One More Minus:  Sadly, my food came packed in ""peanuts"".  No -- not the edible type of peanuts....the STYROFOAM type of peanuts!  It's impossible to open ANY package packed in styrofoam peanuts, without getting at least some of these innocuous-looking, but incredibly annoying little pieces of styrofoam, all over your floor! GourmetFoodStore is not the only manufacturer/ seller who does this of course....but one would think, with the wonderful, (and espensive) gourmet products they sell, that this up-market marketer would pack their food with something less annoying to the customer?  Of course, there IS the TINY advantage in having something packed in peanuts...one gets forced excercise picking up these small, but aggravating, strofoam peace-of-mind-destroyers, off the<br />floor.  OK -- a few calories are used in this way, and, if you are female, you can imagine yourself to be Ruth, (from the Bible), doing some gleaning.  However, I prefer to have MY fantasies when I desire to have them, and to excercise when _I_ decide to excercise, and NOT have these things suddenly and unexpexctedly forced upon me when opening up a package -- especially from such a luxury-goods emporium as GourmetFoodStore truly is.  Perhaps a $1 charge for having one's goods ""not to be packed in peanuts"" might be applied?  (PLEASE don't make it more than $1!)  Bubble-wrap and similar plastic space-fillers are SO appreciated by customer!  And less aggravation leads to less buying of calmatives and pain-relievers....possibly allowing for MORE money to be spent at GourmetFoodStore!  Please consider these ""suggestions for happier custumers"", dear GourmetFoodStore.  Thanks!"
,,,,,Ginger Beer from Jamaica,"This is what I consider to be true ginger beer.  It tastes like very strong ginger ale.  It has a bite to it.  It is sweetend with refined sugar, not raw sugar, so it doesnt have that strange molases taste."
,,,,,Not Good,"The mushrooms that were sent were not labeled like the picture, they had the old red and black label. When I opened the can and tasted them the had a very metallic taste and the inside of the can was discolored so I threw them away rather than take a chance of making myself sick. There is a date code on the top of the can of 0303 which I have no idea what that means and I can't find any explination of this code online. I will not buy this brand mushrooms anymore. I am a mushroom lover and I have bought many large cans of mushrooms in the past and I have never had them taste like these did."
,,,,,MMmMM!,I bought a few boxes of these for gifts and opened one up because I couldn't resist.  They're so damn good I ate half the box already.  I'm buying a few more to hand out for christmas!
,,,,,Not impressed,"I was very disappointed with the quality of the chocolate.<br />If you want the BEST, I've found that Ethel M.'s chocolate liquor barrels are incredibly good - but you WILL pay the price!"
,,,,,exciting,These little chocolates were the party go ers for the season!!! They are very tastey unique item.
,,,,,so far so good,"Haven't tasted the chocolates yet but the shipping was very fast and they look as they were pictured.  we'll see at christmas if they taste good, too.  also, if you go directly to the company's website you can save a few bucks."
,,,,,Unique and Effective,"I received this product as a Christmas gift, and was pleased when I tried it. The chocolate is of decent quality, the gelled liquor filling is flavorful yet not too strong, and eating a few chocolates is effective for relaxing after a hard day at work (if you drink alcohol infrequently). I thought it was a pleasantly unique and thoughtful gift."
,,,,,Yummy!,These are simply wonderful!  We found them fresh and very nicely packaged.  I would most definately purchase them again.
,,,,,This is a GREAT gift!,I sent this to my daughter and son as a gift for the holidays and New Years Eve. They loved these very much. Nice gift to be shared with many people.<br />The liquor filled chocolates arrived in perfect condition and were securely but attractively packaged.
,,,,,Great Gift,I often order this product to give to others.  This is a GREAT gift!  Everyone to whom I have gioven this product as a present really enjoys it.  This is more special becuase anyone can give chocolate.  This is different and cannot be purchased at regular stores in many states.
,,,,,Where's the liquor?,I love liquor-filled chocolates.  I received these as a gift and found the gel-like liquor not to be very strong.  It was almost as if the liquor had been cut with sweet syrup and all the alcohol cooked out. A young child wouldn't even get a buzz from these.  The chocolate itself was OK -- better than Hershey's and Nestle but not as good as Godiva or Lindt.
,,,,,NOT Very Special Liquor: ordered this mistake by mistake,"I meant to order Anthony Berg's chocolates and got this one by mistake...yikes, not a good outcome.  The chocolate is poor and the gel-like liquor is worse...don't make the mistake that i made..."
,,,,,Liquor filled chocolate gift box,"Very much satisfied! The box of chocolate arrived just in time for the party. Everyone enjoyed them so much that I am putting in another order for new years.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000KJRF40"">Very Special Liquor Filled Chocolates 48 Count Christmas Holiday Gift Box Chocolate Gift Pack</a>"
,,,,,Great Gift!,This is a very unique gift for anyone.  Chocolate is very good and the presentation is great.  Great to take to a Xmas Party to give the host.  Eveyone will be fighting to get to try a few.  And with 48 in the box it will go pretty far.  It is not strong but you get great flavor of the liquor filling.
,,,,,would buy again,"I brought this for my co-workers for Valentine's day, they loved it, rave reviews.  I was really good and I would purchase and plan to purchase them again."
,,,,,liquor filled chocolates,I bought this as a gift.  He liked it very much.<br />It came in good condition and good time.<br />I rate it AAAA++++
,,,,,seemed old,"You know how the chocolate turns light brown when it gets old? That's how these were at the top. They were that lighter shade of brown as if they were old. That part just didn't taste right, but the liquor inside was good. These candies weren't fresh."
,,,,,A good Christmas Gift,"Sent this to my brother in Seattle and he loved them. Good flavors, great tasting chocolate, they were well received. Cheers!"
,,,,,Delicious,"This product is great. I have never tried any liquor filled chocolate candies/chocolates but I got to say, these were a great little surprise. I am not good at describing food or candy, but these were little bottle shapped chocolates that are filled with liquid, which is nicely mixed with liquor. Some of these were stronger than others in a sense that some of them you can really feel instantly, while others you only taste chocolate.<br /><br />I shared these with my friends and they seem really happy when they tried it. There are four different chocolates. I would definitely recommend this to everybody. You just have to be careful, these chocolates have liquor in them so use at caution. Great little gift...for myself :)"
,,,,,Chocolate Liquor bottles....Excellent!,purchased them for as a special gift for a boat christening.  They REALLY enjoyed and appreciated receiving this unusual gift.  Received the item in good shape and quickly.  very pleased with everything. Will order from them again...
,,,,,Great gift and is delicious!,Gave this as a gift to my Dad and my boyfriends Dad for Christmas this year. They look great and i got to taste a few myself and i loved them they were so tasty and the alcohol was very real tasting. It was a good buy.
,,,,,xmas gift,"I bought this as a gift for Xmas for my best friend, whom loves chocolate  and loves liquor as well. When she opened her gift to find this, she shined the only cheese smile and said "" you know me so well"". She couldn't wait to try  them. According to her the Jim Beam is the strongest and the Remy Martin least strongest if I'm not mistaken. They are great tasting and the filling is a gel consistence and the chocolate great as well. Only thing i didn't like was the dents on the packaging, noting really to complain about or call the company about cause my best friend loved it either way.These chocolate liquor bottles are a great gift for anyone who loves chocolate and liquor and don't mind them together."
,,,,,Good Review For a Gift,I sent this to my sister as a gift for the holidays and New Years Eve and the review from her was that she and all the guests at her house loved these before and after dinner liquor filled chocolates...... Nice gift to be shared with many people.
,,,,,Very Fast Shipping!,"Super Fast Shipping! I haven't tried the chocolates yet, but will at Christmas and leave another review then. But the chocolates came in excellent condition and just like pictured. I followed advise on another comment - to go to the company website and save a few bucks. Thank You!"
,,,,,Liquor Filled Chocolates,The liquor filled chocolates arrived in perfect condition and were securely but attractively packaged. i am unable to comment on the flavor as they were purchased for a gift. The secure packaging prevented me from sampling the various flavors.
,,,,,Much smaller than the picture leads one to believe,"Delivery of the product was quick, however the items are smaller than how they appear on line. Next time I would order the larger size."
,,,,,very cool gift,"I got these for my boyfriend for Christmas. They are a bit smaller then what i figured they would be from the box, I havent given them to him yet of course but i am sure we will have fun trying them. The box came two day earlier then what amazon said they would come which is nice :)"
,,,,,What's the deal with the packaging?,"An otherwise good gum reduced to a three-star review by really mind-boggling packaging. I fail to see the advantage of the foil-covered capsule approach. I lose approximately one piece a pack by pressing just the wrong way and having the gum shoot out of the package like a cannon, forever lost.<br /><br />The gum itself is decent, lasts for slightly less than a twenty five minute car drive, packs a comfortable punch, and improves breath. Still, it's not outstanding, and doesn't overcome the poor packaging, so won't be buying any more."
,,,,,Awesome!,"Fast shipping, items were packaged nicely and are as described. Also, very tasty :) Highly recommend this product to anyone looking to buy."
,,,,,Real stevia extract with no additives,"This is real stevia extract without any additives. Most of the companies that claim to be selling stevia are really selling stevia extract combined with other things, like fiber or artificial sweeteners, but this is the real deal. It's extremely sweet, which means you only have to use a small amount at a time, and you should melt it with hot water if you plan to put it in a cold drink. Stevia also tastes a little . . . different. (Some describe it as tasting like licorice, but I never thought so). I suggest starting with the smallest amount and then upping the quantity until you find a level of sweetness that tastes good to you. Because of stomach problems, this is the only sweetener I use, and I like it very much. I highly recommend it."
,,,,,Great product - mixes easily and value-priced,"Sweet Leaf Stevia Extract is powdered, pure stevia.  There are supposedly 400 servings (1/40th of a teaspoon) in a .4 ounce container, so it works out to be a fairly inexpensive natural, non-sugar sweetener and dietary supplement - less than 2 cents per serving and 1.5 cents per serving with Subscribe and Save - though it will take you a long time to use up one container, let alone four.  This extract has the sweetness of 300 - 360 times that of sugar, is a Kosher product, and it contains no additives.  Also the .4 ounce container is fairly small and has a shaker top, so it is easy to carry with you and use if you are away from home.  You could even attach a very small spoon with a rubber band to the container if you wanted to be even more precise with your serving sizes.  I started out using this in tea and I am now using it in my coffee as well.  It mixes fairly well in hot drinks.  It's easy to get used to the flavor in tea, but may take you some time in coffee. I think that it's worth it to take the time to get used to the taste.  The end result is that for every teaspoon of sugar or serving of artificial sweetener that you ingest in your coffee or tea during the day, you will be substituting a dietary supplement that has been shown to be healthy to your gums and in some studies to lower high blood pressure.  Every teaspoon of white granulated sugar has 4 grams of carbohydrates, 4 grams of sugar and 15 calories.  If you normally have 5 teaspoons of sugar during the day in your hot drinks, you would be saving 75 calories per day - a good portion of the recommended 100 calorie per day reduction to help with long-term weight loss.  The flavor of this pure extract compares very favorably with that of ground stevia leaf (blehhh!) which if you add it to tea will just float on the surface.  Also as compared with Truvia or other stevia plus other sweetener products, it is considerably less expensive and the taste is pure - not multi-layered.  If you want to enhance the flavor and it doesn't conflict with your diet regimen, consider adding a squirt of honey or a dash of table sugar to your beverage.  I am looking forward to perfecting a hot cocoa recipe.  Chocolate and cocoa seem to mask flavors very effectively.  I am not sure how to use stevia for baking.  That will take some experimentation and most likely require combining stevia with other wholesome sweeteners.<br />In all fairness, I have only tried Truvia once in tea, and I found that it had an almost cooling effect on my tongue and considerably less sweetness than stevia.  Many sweeteners come in single serving packets, and as a result they are considerably more expensive per serving. Why not start with a pure product?"
,,,,,delicious sugar substitute,"SweetLeaf Stevia Extract is the best tasting sugar substitute I've ever found, either for beverages or for cooking; but it's VERY concentrated, so it takes a bit of experimentation to get it to taste good; but after you've found the amount you like best, it is absolutely fabulous; it even has a nice slight aftertaste (that when adjusted properly), makes it taste even better than plain old sugar;<br /><br />another drawback is that it doesn't mix easily into liquids, but with practice, that becomes no problem either; it's much better than another SweetLeaf product SteviaPlus that's supposed to mix more easily; but SteviaPlus has a weird taste that's not nearly as delicious as Stevia Extract & it doesn't mix that much better either;<br /><br />I just wish Amazon would always keep in stock the larger size 0.9oz Stevia Extract containers; sometimes the small ones are all that's available"
,,,,,Love This Stevia!,"This is my favorite form of stevia. It's highly concentrated, so one small bottle lasts a long time. I have a container near me all the time; at work and at home. It's also the best tasting Stevia that I've tried. And Sweetleaf is a good company. And the price is great!"
,,,,,Good purchase,"I recieved my stevia a couple of weeks ago and it is excellent. My only problem is that the four containers were little more than half-way filled, but the total amount of stevia is sufficient and I've been using it everyday and I have not used much.<br />Overall, for the price, it is excellent."
,,,,,Best of the Best,"Only once before have I tasted a better chocolate covered coconut macaroon, and that was long ago and far away.  The dark chocolate is lucious and it's very addicting."
,,,,,great all fruit snack,my 26 month year old spotted these on his own while shopping at the supermarket and I had to overlook the $8.59 for 3 oz bag and just be glad that was what he was asking for.  the amazon price is somewhat better but higher then Just Tomatoes actual website.  I only question why at this price is all the fruit not sourced from the USA?  I find that a bit hard to believe but I guess everyone has to make a living. some of the fruit is from Vietnam.  The crunch of the fruit satisfies when in the need for a snack.  the fact that he is getting used to a non sugar snack as a special treat hopefully will establish his appreciation for fruits in their natural state.  the 3oz bag does have a lot in it more then I would have thought before buying.
,,,,,crunchy & tart,"These are very handy when fresh fruit isn't available.  I bought them for my 16 month old and I to enjoy, however they are a little too crunchy and sour for her to eat straight from the bag, maybe some of other the other dried ""just fruit"" varieties are less tart. Overall they are nice to have on hand, they lose some of their tartness when stirred in cereal or yogurt.  Also good for baking."
,,,,,Loved them!,"They made a great impression on our family members. Great to celebrate the birth of our second Child. The chocolate was very tasty, and believe me... I know chocolate. =)"
,,,,,"Good chocolate, nice packaging","I bought these cigars and some bubble gum ones.  Everybody loved the chocolate ones...not so much the bubble gum ones.  Besides having a nice presentation, people said the chocolate was actually really good!!!  I'd buy these over the bubble gum ones again.<br /><br />The only thing I wished was if they gave you more than just 24.  Too bad there was not a 'jumbo' pack because these cigars went fast!"
,,,,,how many days for priority shipping?????????,"Can't say much about the product itself.  was a gift for friends in California who had just given birth and it arrived 5-6 days after shipping totally melted.  The seller gave early warning before shipping stating the weather had been abnormally hot and that they could not be held responsible for packages missed and left to sit in the heat.  I assumed that was not an issue considering my wife was at their home and aware the package would be arriving and I had also purchased priority shipping (additional $8+dollars).  No such luck.  Be sure whoever you are buying these from gives you absolute specifics before you buy.<br />Just to be fair, I have to say the seller was very quick and courteous with responses to my concerns.  Unfortunately she didn't even consider any form of compensation though.  I really hate throwing money away and giving a less than memorable gift at the same time."
,,,,,"Miss KY, but this helps bring me home...","I used to live in Winchester, KY as a kid...  I was actually born and raised there, but moved to Montana in my early 20's...  I moved back to Lexington, KY a while ago and can enjoy this anytime now...  I'm very fortunate in that aspect, but out west it was so hard to be w/o...  Can't say enough about how good this product is...  Very good for mixing w/ some good old Shine or Bourbon...  It's a ginger ale, but nothing like your typical variety...<br /><br />give it a try and see for yourself!!!"
,,,,,Best Thing About Kentucky!,Ale 8 is the best thing about Kentucky! It far exceeds any other Ginger Ale product on the market - both because of the delicious taste and because unlike most other Ginger Ale drinks it includes caffeine for that extra shot of energy.
,,,,,"fragrant, delicious, and cheap","Vanilla beans typically run 6-10 dollars for two at major supermarkets. Those prices make me reluctant to use them in most dishes that call for them, and instead I use vanilla bean paste (Williams and Sonoma sells a very good product). But these beans are such a good deal (less than a fifth the supermarket price) that now I'm willing to use them with almost reckless abandon. Vanilla beans really do provide superior flavor to things like rice pudding and custards and vanilla ice cream, a more complex, more luxurious flavor than vanilla extract does. These beans arrived fresh, fragrant, and tightly bagged. They're Madagascar vanilla beans, considered by some cognoscenti to be inferior to Tahitian beans, but not being one of the cognoscenti, I can't detect much difference at all. This product has made me a fan of internet grocery shopping."
,,,,,Excellent Buy!,"Vanilla beans in our area cost $6 for one and up to $11 for two.  I like to make my own vanilla extract and I also like vanilla flavored sugar which requires whole beans.  I probably have a lifetime supply of vanilla beans now, but with Amazon's excellent price on this item, I can use them freely and order again if I need to.  Thanks Amazon!"
,,,,,I will never buy vanilla beans at the store again!,"I purchased a Cuisinart electric ice cream maker <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00000JGRT"">Cuisinart ICE-20 Automatic 1-1/2-Quart Ice-Cream Maker, White</a>this summer as well as a couple of great recipe books (The Perfect Scoop by David Libovitz, and The Old Fashioned Ice Cream Cookbook by Joyce Deuker). Most of the recipes in each book call for vanilla beans (in fact, almost insist on them!) - have you priced them recently? Yikes. So I turned to my trusty Amazon.com site, searched for vanilla beans and found these. I could not be more pleased - they are moist, flexible and have a very nice flavor. I particularly like that they come in packages of two, so the remainder stay fresh - who knew vanilla beans weren't crunchy! After I have soaked the ice cream mixture, I dry the bean and put it in a jar with sugar so next time I see a recipe for vanilla sugar, I won't have to scramble. I highly recommed this product."
,,,,,I freeze them,"This is a good deal on whole vanilla beans, which I mostly use for making my own extract with Everclear.<br /><br />I stick them in the freezer to preserve, so it's worthwhile buying so many at once and getting the bulk deal on these."
,,,,,Best Vanilla Beans,"Great product for the price. Only negative would be the packaging. Since I keep mine in the freezer a single package of 24 or 30 or whatever would be sufficient. I make ""Chocaluah"", a coffee-chocolate liquor for adult use as a syrup over ice cream. These beans add additional depth to the flavor of the sauce."
,,,,,Good flavor and value!,"Purchased for making homemade vanilla ice cream.  Slightly smaller beans than expected, but overall flavor and price outweighs expensive local bought beans."
,,,,,Fair price.  Good quality,Nice alternative if you can't find them locally.  Great gift for the avid cook.
,,,,,Great value!,"I have a small gourmet catering business and have a couple of dessert items I use vanilla beans for.  One recipe calls for 3 full vanilla beans for each recipe!  One can image how expensive that would be at $4 - $6 per bean!  This Melissa's box was an incredible buy at just over $1 per bean...the beans are supple and their flavor is very good.  As another reviewer mentioned, they are not the most coveted bean but for most purposes they are excellent!  I highly recommend this purchase for anyone who uses a lot of vanilla beans or who can find someone to share them with.  I don't know how long they will remain fresh because I haven't had that issue, but as quickly as I use them, I don't expect to.  This is a tremendous value!!"
,,,,,Cats love it!,My cats all love this product just like they love the other flavors. I dare not run out of these treats or I might have a kitty uprising!
,,,,,Poor Kitty,"Bottom line, this made my cat projectile vomit. I've never had a problem with him eating Friskies before but, I knew ""Cheezy Craze"" just didn't sound right. It came as a sample in one of the larger bags. Not fun to clean up after partial digestion."
,,,,,how many?,"My cats go crazy for the Party Mix and mainly the cheese flavor. It sells for $1.50<br />to $1.89 a pouch in my local stores, so I was looking on amazon hoping to find a better<br />price. I looked at this listing because of the price of $6.48, assuming it was for several<br />pouches, like most of the other listings here. But no number of pouches was listed and the<br />only indication comes from looking at the shipping weight: this ia apparently the price<br />for a single pouch. This is a problem with amazon--quantities are not always posted<br />and you can really get ripped off overpaying. I saw one review for Friskies canned<br />food, where the reviewer thought she was ordering a multican pack for $12 but the<br />actual number was not posted and she ended up receiving ONE can!"
,,,,,High Quality,"Top grade Tahitian vanilla beans, these are about three times bigger than the regular Tahitian beans.<br />Excellent quality, incredible aroma and flavor. Highly recommended."
,,,,,Lowers Blood sugars,"I bought the Navitas Naturals Chia seeds.  They are great.  I put them in a shaker bottle.  I use them on sweet potatoes, in salads and coleslaw and just learned that they can replace half of the fat in baking.  At first I didn't know if it was lowering my blood glucose or if it was something else but I confirmed it the other day.  I had stopped using the seeds and my morning blood glucose shot up to the 140's.  I decided to start using the seeds again and within a few days my blood sugars dropped to the 120's and the only thing I changed in my diet was the addition of chia seeds.  I love them.  I haven't made the gel yet I have only used them raw and they are like eating poppy seeds which I love.  Hope this will help other diabetics.  Navitas is a quality product and is very reasonably priced.  I will definitely continue to buy them."
,,,,,Discovery of the Century!,"When I found out I was pregnant with my first child, I read in a baby magazine about the wonderful health benefits of Chia seeds. They are packed with Omega-3 fatty acids, and because healthy brain function is nurtured by Omega-3 fatty acids, I wanted to supplement my diet with something other than fish oil pills that can pack a fairly unpleasant aftertaste.<br />These seeds are so tiny, and so flavorless, that you can mix them into cereal, or even juice, without ever realizing you have consumed them. I have also found that adding these seeds to my breakfast keeps me fuller longer.<br />Chia seeds are more convenient than flax seeds, and a pound of them, costing around $12 (depending on the seller), lasts a few months.<br />If you want to avoid the potential unpleasantness of fish oil supplements, Chia seeds are a great alternative, and for new or expecting mothers, they are a great way to ensure your baby is getting what s/he needs for optimum brain health and development.<br />Lastly, you do not have to be considering motherhood to consider adding Chia to your diet. It is a wonderful, all-natural supplement that is perfectly painless (in both taste and cost) to undertake.<br /> Who would have thought that the seeds responsible for the (infamous) ""Chia Pet"" would offer so much more than a gawdy table ornament?<br />Highly recommended."
,,,,,healthy & fun food!,"For health reasons, I try to eat highly nutritious low carb foods. I love tapioca but it's 100% carbs with no nutritional value. I was introduced to chia seeds and it is a highly nutritious low carb food but it is also a fun food. It absorbs 12x its weight in liquids and puffs up and reminds me of tapioca with a strawberry seed inside (and that's what it tastes/feels like). Another one of my favorites is the Mexican drink called: Chia fresca, which is basically soaked chia seeds in lemonade. You have to experience it yourself to know why it's so popular.  One lb. added to liquid will create 10-14# of highly nutritious food.<br /><br />Chia seeds (best known for the chia pet) are high in protein, 5x the calcium of milk and high in Omega 3 oils. Chia seeds are seeds of an herb and are grown in Mexico, south & central America and were the food of the Aztecs.<br /><br />I would think you could make faux tapioca pudding with just coconut milk, chia seeds & sweetener, but I don't know how well the chia would absorb the coconut milk since it's so fatty. (Can of coconut milk, 1/4 cup chia seeds & sweetener to taste) I make it with 2 cups of water, 4 scoops of whey protein, then I soak one cup of chia seeds in this and when it has plumped up, I add 2 cans of coconut milk and sweetener. Sometimes I cream a package of cream cheese into a can of pumpkin, cinnamon and add that for more nutrition for a pumpkin pie tapioca pudding."
,,,,,"Great quality, awesome product.","Chia seeds are a great, healthy food to add to your diet. I make chia gel by mixing them with water (1/2 C. per tablespoon of seeds), then stir the gel into yogurt, oatmeal, smoothies . . . it's flavorless and the seeds have a pleasant crunch. This brand is high quality and I wouldn't hesitate to recommend it."
,,,,,"Great, but eat fast!","These seeds are perfect for tossing into yogurt or smoothie.  But you must consume quickly.  The seeds draw moisture quickly causing them to swell.  You will be picking them from your teeth for days if you do not drink with a staw.  I have taken them straight from a spoon and washed them down with a glass of water before my ""light"" lunch and they really do give a feeling of fullness.  Do to a severe sensitivity to caffeine and any sort of stimulus, I wanted to try something natural that would not raise my pulse, quicken my MVP heart and just not make me overall jittery.  These do the trick.  When I drink a meal replacement drink, I still feel hollow inside and want to snack.  By adding a full, rounded table spoon of seeds after a few minutes, I feel nice and full.  These can be tossed into a powdered drink, a canned ready to go drink (milkshake type) and even into a vitamin water.  But believe me when I say, you must consume quickly or you will need a spoon, they turn into a jello consistency quick....which actually is not bad either.  You can bulk up a 100 calorie pudding snack by stirring in a teaspoon or so.  Many ways to get creative with the Chia seeds.  Enjoy!"
,,,,,#1 superfood,"Nutritional benefits of Chia seeds are incredible. Here are a few to start:<br /><br />*According to studies, Chia possesses the highest percentage of the polyunsaturated fatty acids(linolenic and linoleic) of all crops. Chia seeds contain 60% omega 3 fatty acids.<br /><br />*The protein content of Chia is higher that other nutritional grains. Unlike other grains, it is a complete protein, meaning that it has the appropriate balance of all essential amino acids. About 19 to 23% of chia seeds weight is protein.<br /><br />*Chia seeds are high in fiber, a 15 gm serving of chia seeds will provide 4 to 5 gm of fiber. Our body requires at least 35 gm of fiber a day to stay healthy.<br /><br />*Chia seeds contain boron which is essential for bone health.<br /><br />*Chia seeds are rich in calcium, about 2 oz of chia seeds contains 600 mg of Calcium, as compared to 120 mg for a cup of milk.<br /><br />*Chia seeds have 2 times more potassium than banana.<br /><br />*Chia seeds have 3 times more antioxidants than blueberries<br /><br />Regardless of the astonishing nutritional values of Chia seeds, it also tastes very good. My girlfriend and I make a big pot of ""steel cut"" oatmeal at night (the quick way is throw a cup of oats in 4 cups of boiling water and just let it sit overnight), put in a good helping of Chia seeds, and the next morning you have a wonderful breakfast that could last all week depending on how many people are eating it. Feel free to add a little cinnamon, peanut butter, fruit, or your own oatmeal favorite additions.<br /><br />There are many other recipes for eating Chia, but oatmeal is my personal favorite. I started eating Chia last year after reading the NY Times Bestseller 'Born to Run' about how a tribe of Mexicans that eat Chia will drink beer, smoke tobacco, and then run up to 500 miles in a footrace the following days. One of the primary contributors to the tribal Mexicans' seemingly supernatural physical ability is that their diet is full of the nutrient-rich Chia seeds. I haven't put in 500 miles. But after previously failing to finish a 26-mile marathon without chia in my diet, I added chia to my diet and my knees allowed me to finish my first 26-mile marathon! Could the chia seeds have helped? I think so. I certainly had more energy and my joints felt better my second attempt at a marathon when ""on"" the chia.<br /><br />I started out paying an arm-and-a-leg at Whole Foods for Navitas Naturals Chia Seeds, but have since started buying it on Amazon for a fraction of the price. Buy some Chia seeds and make a delicious bowl of oatmeal for one of the healthiest breakfasts possible."
,,,,,Great product.,I make chia gel with this and add a large spoonful to my yogurt and fruit in the morning.  I tried to make cookies with the gel and that was a failure!  Great for subbing in sauces to add bulk without fat.  Easy to sprinkle on top of any food product too since they have virtually no taste.  Very versatile and easy to eat.
,,,,,I love chia seeds!,"Chia seeds are an amazing nutritional powerhouse - and to me, they don't even really taste like anything (which is a positive; no funky taste here)!  They are great sprinkled on salads, added to a smoothie, used to make raw vegan pudding, etc.  Its uses are many!<br /><br />Also - I wanted to add that this is a really good price.  My co-op charges almost $20/lb. for chia seeds, and Amazon has them for just over $13!"
,,,,,Rancid!,"I love chia, but I have gotten two different packages of this brand that were rancid.  The expiration dates were over a year away.  Amazon doesn't allow food returns, and Navitas said I would have to ship them the seeds for them to check before they would send me new ones.  I will still enjoy chia, but I'll avoid this brand from now on."
,,,,,Adds a great texture to foods,I just started eating these recently after hearing about all of their positive qualities and the Omega 3 bit.  I was expecting to take a spoonful and swallow it like medication.  Instead I decided to mix it into my strawberry kefir.  I LOVE the way the little seeds swell up and give the kefir a little bit of a chewy texture.  it reminds me of those Asian drink places that add the Tapioca or lychee pieces to fruit smoothies.  They are great.  Be aware though after you eat these that they are little black seeds and they seem to love to stick between your teeth.  I look like some kind of nasty old redneck with chewing tobacco all over my mouth if I don't floss after eating them.<br /><br />This bag is a nice size and I think it will last a while.  Worth the price.
,,,,,good quality,"I don't know if chia seeds are really a ""super food,"" but this brand seems to be very good quality. I've bought other kinds, and these LOOK better. And since I only eat them sprinkled on my morning cereal, it's not that expensive to buy this higher-priced brand."
,,,,,"Good for your belly, good for your heart","Seeds are a staple in my household, I always have flax for baking, hemp seeds for snacking, and chia for added protein, iron, calcium, and omega-3s in my daily morning smoothies. I know you can add chia seeds to salads, but I don't personally prefer the taste. They don't really have any taste, so they aren't bad, just not something I would personally eat a spoonful of. Chia seeds are an important to my daily routine because they have a decent amount of iron and don't hurt my stomach. I'm very sensitive to iron supplements, and don't eat meat, Chia seeds is something my doctor recommended I try to add to my diet, and he and I are both glad I did. Navitas Naturals makes excellent products, and I have purchased many of their brand items. In my freezer right now is their raw maca powder, cacao nibs, flax seeds, mulberries, acai powder, wheatgrass, and goji berries. I am always impressed with the freshness and quality. I have not noticed any processing remnants in their products, and they always arrive fresh from Amazon, who seems to have a much better turnaround time than my local Whole Foods. And the price is unbeatable. My favorite smoothie is 1 cup of almond milk, 1 scoop of wheat grass or Amazing Grass, a huge spoon of whatever nut butter is in freshly made, 1 teaspoon chia seeds, 1 tablespoon hemp seeds or hemp protein powder, 1 tablespoon cacao nibs, two huge handfuls of spinach, a banana, and ice. This tides me over from 6 am until I eat lunch around 1. (The Chia contribute a lot, since they gel up when in contact with liquid, they leave you feeling fuller for longer) I'd prefer to give 4.5 stars for nutritional benefits and ease of incorporation, but like I said, the taste is lacking. It is not nutty, despite their claims. It's really a ""non-flavor"" and wish they didn't lead you to believe most people would want to just snack on these as they are."
,,,,,"Lots of benefits, especially for vegetarians/vegans!","Chia seeds are a versatile and amazing food.  These seeds from Navitas Naturals:<br /><br />1) Provide a very easy way get omega fatty acids -- your body cannot make Omega 3 fatty acids on its own and they are essential to cognitive health.<br /><br />2) Provide an easy way to get fiber -- not only does fiber help you feel fuller it can promote digestive regularity.<br /><br />3) Are easily incorporated into many foods you eat on a regular basis -- Chia seeds can be placed in oatmeal and smoothies.  Because they have a rather mild taste, you can even use them as sprinkles on a dessert. I've made a vanilla tapioca pudding with them. I also add them to salads.  Because chia seeds eventually turn into a gel if left in a liquid for a period of time, you can use them to thicken gravies.<br /><br />4)Are Vegan (and therefore vegetarian) -- Fish is how most individuals incorporate omega fatty acids in their diet.  These seeds are fish free.<br /><br />5) Provide energy -- Can be a great supplement to take before intense workouts or on days when you are feeling sluggish.  Let these seeds soak in some juice or low calorie coconut milk (like So Delicious)to help propel you through the rest of your day.<br /><br />6)Come in a bag that is resealable.  You don't have to struggle to close the bag; it opens easily and closes just as easily."
,,,,,AWESOME,"I would buy Chia Seeds at Costco instead. It's 2 pounds for 7.99 and I use them in smoothies, over salads, and lately, I mix them in with Chocolate Almond Milk for amazing pudding in 3 hours chilled!"
,,,,,makes yummy pudding,"I couldn't wait to get my package of these little seeds because of the health benefit they provide and plus I am trying to lose some weight. I've only tried them once but they made a lovely pudding.<br />1/2 cup coconut milk<br />2 tsbp chia seeds<br />1 tablespoon of cocoa powder (i used amazing grass chocolate powder 'cause it's all I had)<br />1 tablespoon cinnamon<br />1 tablespoon honey<br /><br />mix well in a container or small bowl, making sure to incorporate the cocoa powder.<br />Cover and place on a counter for about 30 minutes, stirring a few times.<br /><br />It will turn into a wonderful gelatin-esque yummy dessert!"
,,,,,Great supplement,"I've been consuming about 1 tablespoon twice per day, soaked for at least 15 minutes, followed by an equal amount of water. They help me feel more full throughout the day and thus I am able to consume less calories. The additional protein and fiber is an added bonus."
,,,,,Pleased Subscriber,"I started adding chia seeds to my diet about 18 months ago.  I have tried various brands and like the Navitas Naturals brand the best of the 4 or 5 brands I have tried.  Not sure if the ""organic"" promises they provide are absolutely true, but as a consumer of several Navitas Naturals products I certainly hope so.  In any event, it beats buying some of the bulk chia seeds I have found at local stores with little or no explanation of where the seeds really come from.<br /><br />In all, I find chia seeds rather tasteless.  The joy in eating them, if there is any, is in the texture / crunch they provide.  Some other brands had what I assume was foreign matter, which made the texture uneven or, worse, hard like having little rocks in the mix.<br /><br />My motivation for adding them to my diet was to increase my Omega 3 intake from plant sources and add more fiber as well.  I have noticed improvement in my overall health since eating them, but I can't say for sure if chia played any role in that because I changed my diet in many other ways and greatly increased my work out schedule.  Just to be safe, I'm going to continue eating chia every morning and adding it as often as possible for other meals throughout the day.<br /><br />As a very happy customer, I plan on continuing my subscription to Navitas Naturals Chia Seeds for a long time."
,,,,,Ch-ch-ch CHIA!,"These are much better quality than the cheaper seeds I bought on another site. Originally, I had them on a six month subscription (a pound twice a year) but I've changed it to monthly."
,,,,,Healthy and versatile,"There are so many miracle health products out there it's hard to know what's for real.  But enough people have said good things about these seeds that I decided to jump on the chia seed bandwagon and order up a bag.<br /><br />***Health Benefits***<br />- extremely high concentration of omega-3 acids (more than salmon)<br />- complete protein!  What does that mean?  I had to look it up too. :)  It means chia seeds contain all the essential amino acids your body needs.  So you could just eat nothing but chia seeds and survive.  Most veggies don't have that, meaning you need to mix and match various plant sources to get everything all the things your body can't synthesize on its own. 1 serving (10g / 1 tbsp) = 2g protein -- higher than most other grains and seeds.  Other plant sources with complete protein = quinoa, soybean, buckwheat & hempseed<br />- good source of fibre & potassium & calcium<br />- 3x the iron than spinach<br />- low in cholesterol & sodium<br />- doesn't have drawbacks like flaxseed does with being a laxative and doesn't have estrogen-like effects<br /><br />***Uses & Taste***<br />Chia seeds taste pretty good!  Rather, there's no strong taste the way sesame does, so you just have more of a crunchy texture if you eat them dry, or a thicker jelly-like texture if you soak them in water for a little bit.<br /><br />Ideas for use: In a salad, added to smoothies, in a breakfast granola or yogurt, in oatmeal, used as an egg replacement in baked goods, on sushi, to make iskiate (chia fresca) -- a Tarahumara energy drink, or just straight up have a spoonful.  I recently made pancakes and threw in a few tablespoons and it worked out great.<br /><br />One thing to note is these seeds can stick in your teeth, so be sure to do a quick mirror check after eating them. :)<br /><br />***This brand***<br />I haven't bought any other brand of chia seeds, but this one works so why switch?  Seeds tasted fresh when I opened the package and stayed fresh during the 2 months it took me to go through my bag.  Bag is resealable, price on Amazon was better than in stores = a good buy.<br /><br />Overall I'm feeling pretty good about eating chia seeds instead of cupcakes although that has me thinking...next kitchen experiment - lemon chia cupcakes!  Bye bye poppy seeds!"
,,,,,"love it, don't ask me why","i've heard a bunch of great things about chia seeds. i love the texture it adds to juices. I honestly haven't felt much benefit form eating the seeds in terms of strength, endurance, etc but it has helped in cleaning out my system and keeping health on my mind. , but i love the ritual of mixing something healthy and natural in my juices and i love the texture."
,,,,,Surprisingly good,"When a friend of mine recommended I tried Chia Seeds I though she was crazy, I mean they're Chia Seeds... enough said. Anyway, I tried them because I'll try just about anything if someone tells me it's good for me and I'll like it, and as it turns out it is both of those things. These little seeds are about the size of sesame seeds, maybe a little smaller, and have a very mild nutty taste. They can be added to just about anything and are packed with omega fats, fiber and a little protein. They've got fat, but not the bad french fries and cheeseburger kind, the good kind that your body uses to keep your heart and everything else healthy. And by the way, these don't have to be ground or chewed up (like flax) in order for your body to get all the goodies from them, you can just eat them the way they are."
,,,,,cheers for chia!,"Great for making tapioca-like pudding with none of the carbs! I like to make chia gel and add that to iced teas and smoothies--the texture kind of reminds me of boba. It is a good source of omega-3s, magnesium, and calcium. Also, the combination of fiber and fat slows digestion and blunts blood sugar spikes. I will be buying this in bulk when I run out =)"
,,,,,Healthy food at a good price,"A friend of mine has been touting the benefits of chia seeds for years, so I finally decided to give them a try.  I really like them.<br /><br />I haven't tried making tapioca or pudding like some of the other reviewers have;  instead, I usually toss a tablespoon into my protein smoothies or into my granola/Greek yogurt/goji berry mixture.<br /><br />As others have mentioned, they do swell up after they've been in liquid for awhile, but I've found that as long as I drink my smoothie within 10 minutes or so of making it, it's fine.<br /><br />Since adding chia seeds, goji berries, and soy lecithin into my diet last month, I've noticed that my skin seems brighter and smoother, and I have more energy."
,,,,,Delicious seeds,"I really enjoy adding these seeds to my smoothies.  They add a nice texture, just the right amount of crunch, and I think they taste like kiwi seeds.  I hear they are healthy too!"
,,,,,Wholesome Goodness!!,"GREAT TASTING, WHOLESOME GOODNESS AT A FAIR PRICE!! I PUT THESE LITTLE SEEDS ON EVERYTHING! CHIA HAS A N EXCELLENT SHELF LIFE AND NAVITAS PACKAGES THEIR PRODUCT IN A RESEALABLE BAG TO ENSURE FRESHNESS!!"
,,,,,I Use Chia Seeds Daily..Love them!,"I love Chia Seeds. I got the info from watching Dr. Oz, and thought I would try them in an attempt to eat healthier. I love them in just about everything. I use them in my oatmeal, and my fruit salad at lunch time. I'm much fuller after using Chia Seeds and also have more energy. Bottom line is I remain feeling full much longer. I also have better bowel movements..important with the medications I've been on for 15yrs. It could be ""all in my mind,"" but I feel better since starting the Chia Seeds...I'd be a great commercial for these folks! Now I just need to get them in a bigger size! :-)"
,,,,,Great!,"These tiny seeds really work!  Other than getting stuck in my teeth, they keep me full, offer additional fiber, and have little to no taste!  And I received my order super fast!  Great product and dealer!"
,,,,,Please come back,I really liked this product and am sad that I can't get it with Subscribe and Save anymore. Why not? (
,,,,,They are amazing,Read one of the chia books out there. This really is a super food.<br /><br />The only down side is the price gouging here on Amazon. Chia can now be found in many grocery stores in the bulk bins for around $9.50/lb. $20/bag here is ridiculous.
,,,,,Chia seeds!!!!,"I add chia seeds to my morning shake for breakfast and I am in love with them. They taste great almost like tiny bobas but better. This particular bag last a long time considering I consume them daily.  They are also cheaper than most stores, def recommend this product."
,,,,,Great!,"I'd never tried chia seeds before, but I'm trying to be more health-conscious, so I ordered this with the intent to put them in my overnight oatmeal. They're great! A little goes a long, long way. I had no problems with bloating, they taste like nothing, and they pack a nutritional wallop. I've since added them to quinoa and couscous, and have a bread recipe I'm planning to try. Great value. I'll buy them again."
,,,,,"Delicious, Nutritious,  and a Great Buy!","I am in Chia heaven. I have been wanting to try Chia since reading about its versatility and health benefits but I waited, put off by the steep, in-market, price tag.  Navitas Naturals Chia Seeds, purchased via Amazon, are half the price of the in-store product.  I was worried about how long it would take for them to arrive and also about how fresh they would be since seeds can spoil and become rancid.  The product arrived promplty, within 2 mailing days and was fresh and delicious.  I have since been using it in smoothies in place of flax seed,  and creating very nutritious desert blends. They have a texture similar to tapioca ( but smaller) when mixed with liquid. I am a fan and would encourage you if you are interested in supplementing your diet with  Chia seeds to look up recipes on line and experiment. Do your pocket book a favor though, and skip the super market, or health food store for Chia Seeds.  The mark-up is high.  Purchase Navitas Naturals Chia Seeds online."
,,,,,Makes you feel full and a natural thickener,"I'm all about the natural superfoods, so it's no surprise I got this.  Not only does it make you feel fuller for longer, it is also a natural thickener.  When my hummus looked a bit runny, I just added some chia to it and it thickened up really well."
,,,,,"Good quality, too expensive","I bought Nutiva organic chia seeds before, two pouches 14 ounces each - $16.24 with tax, this brand in one 16-ounce pouch $14.83. The quality and the taste are the same, but the latter one is WAY much more expensive. Buy Nutiva Organic Chia seeds, not Navitas. In terms of the taste, I usually toast mine and add them everywhere - cereal, yogurt, oatmeal, etc. Tastes great and full of fiber."
,,,,,Excellent product,"These are great, only wish I had tried them earlier.  I had originally put off purchasing these thinking I wouldn't use them, but I was wrong.  I use these daily, in oatmeal, yogurt, on top of salad, mixed into soup.  They taste like whatever you mix them with and really help you feel full longer!  Highly recommend!"
,,,,,New everyday food,I love adding chia seeds to my oatmeal or yogurt.  It makes the food more filling and doesn't affect flavor.
,,,,,WOW!,Love this stuff! I make my own granola and add it in. Will definitely buy again.
,,,,,Cha Cha Cha Chia!~,"I got this here last week, its yummy.<br />I soak some in juice overnight and put it in smoothies<br />or mix it with yogurt."
,,,,,Great seeds!,"Learning that we Americans have an imbalance of omega3 vs. omega6, I was glad to find something to correct the imbalance without putting in too much effort. Chia doesn't taste like anything. Just looks like mini dinosaur eggs! I use two tablespoons of chia in a large cup of water with matcha and a little bit of crystal light. It's fun to drink it when the seeds bloat like tomato seeds!"
,,,,,seeds,I love eating Chia Seeds and they are so filling I  put them in my oatmeal everyday. They help me with my digestive system!
,,,,,Super healthy :),People that research this product knows that is good to lower your cholesterol and is a great food for busy people that can have just juice for breakfast. The seller was extra nice and took care of me cause my package got lost in the mail and now I finally got it :)<br />Thanks guys!!!
,,,,,Sad this can no longer be autimatic,Navitas Naturals Chia seed have become a favorite. It was easy to set up the next delivery date to enjoy these healthy seeds. I am sad Amazon has removed them from the auto-ship program. I will continue to buy them for as long as they are available for their health benefits.
,,,,,Great versatility!,"I like the taste and texture over all. I'd put it in my oatmeal every morning. as far as the energy it's supposed to give, I'm not sure yet. I also used it in stir-fry instead of sesame seeds. It's a great product overall."
,,,,,Chia,"This simple yet tasteless product did what it said it would, thicken gravy and soups. This product in my opinion should be used in the morning before work or people who are studing late nights as Chia makes you energized."
,,,,,Love the chia seeds!,"I just found about chia seeds and I actually bought this bag so I could plant them. The seeds are growing like weeds and I've discovered that they are great in my foods also! My husband put them in a tomato sauce to thicken it, I add a teaspoonful to my cereal, and a tablespoon to my lemonade. They're fun to eat and take on the flavor of what ever I'm making!"
,,,,,Good price.,"Came quickly and good value for the price. Product was fresh and of decent quality, I would  order this again."
,,,,,They're chia seeds......,"If you put two teaspoons of chia seeds in a bowl of vanilla almond milk and let it sit for a couple of hours, it makes the seeds more bearable to eat."
,,,,,Great in juices/water mix!,"These are great in juice mix.  What I usually do is mix a tablespoon or two in a glass with half-way filled water.  Stir continuously for the next minute or two (this is to keep the seed separated so they don't stick together in small chunks, do this and they will float in the drink mix), then fill up the glass with your prefer choice of juice or organic juice (guava, prune, coconut, etc), stir in a tiny bit of <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00014J2UO"">KAL - Pure Stevia Extract Powder, 3 oz powder</a>.  Let the drink sit for at least 15 minutes (remember to stir it every minute so that the gel coat on those seeds are formed evenly and they will float).  Drop in a cube or two of ice when ready to serve....you'll be amazed!"
,,,,,FRESH AND CLEAN,"The chia seeds are fresh, shiny and clean.  It is easy to use them and add to various recipes because you hardly see or taste them.  You just know they are there to make you healthier!"
,,,,,What an amazing product!,"I got this product because I used to buy chia water in Kreation cafe, and they sell one bottle for like $6. This little bag can make at least c hundred of these bottles, if not much more. What a great saving! I make a bottle (or two) of chia water, add agave syrup and stevia to it and slowly drink throughout the day. These seeds have so many benefits! And I LOVE the smooth sensation of them on my tongue. It's a fun water, and I am buying more. For now I have been using it for about 2 weeks, and my bag is still almost fool."
,,,,,"Nutritious, Easy and Convenient!","I absolutely love these Navitas Naturals Chia Seeds. I have been using them in and on various meals for over a year now, and I now rely on them so much that I finally decided to subscribe to ordering them through amazon. I cook for myself and one other person, use these on at least one meal per day (helps digestion and provides key nutrients for my vegetarian diet!) and I usually need a new bag every other month. These are just like poppy seeds in texture and size, and I find them perfect for sprinkling on salads, soups and pasta dishes. But honestly, they're excellent in anything for added texture and nutrients!"
,,,,,Excellent,"Muy buen producto, el cierre del empaque es fant&aacute;stico. Adem&aacute;s de todos los beneficios que tiene como antioxidante.<br />Lo recomiendo ampliamente.<br />Good product"
,,,,,Just what the doctor ordered,Okay so the doctor didn't 'order' these but I read about a lot of their benefits and love adding them to smoothies etc. The product came fresh and is definitely a good buy- will be ordering again!
,,,,,"Met my expections, hard to find locally (CAREFUL: THEY STICK IN TEETH!)","It was always hard for me to buy this product locally - perhaps because it's so popular! I find these little chia seeds a good way to sneak in some extra nutrition and add some ""fill"" to my smoothies (otherwise all fruit + water or OJ). I've snuck them into other things too - oatmeal, salad, soups. If you add it to something wet, just note that the tiny seeds (think poppy seeds) will ""swell"" and turn a bit gummy. This isn't a big deal, but it changed the taste of my absolute favorite soup... so I don't think I'll try it in that one again (lentil). I drink my smoothies quick, so I add these as the last step, and I don't think they have much time to swell. The seeds themselves are pretty tasteless to me, just little black dots. WARNING: THEY WILL STICK IN YOUR TEETH! Seriously. These are an ""at home"" item only - when I can brush my teeth or swish well after. Don't try them at work, or before a big meeting, etc. Overall, I don't think they have changed my world... but a good little supplement/boost, and Amazon had them easy to get, and a great price compared to my local market. I took off a star because of the tooth concerns... but otherwise I wasn't expecting magic. They met my expectations and came fresh and well packaged."
,,,,,"Excellent Quality, Excellent Service","Title says it all, a Excellent quality product and Excellent service at a fair price. Product came ahead of time and as expected."
,,,,,Good product,This is the first time I ordered these and they blend right into my smoothies! They seem a good quality and a decent price!
,,,,,Natural Energy!,I add these Chia seeds to my Scottish oatmeal. Nutritious and yummy.<br /><br />Do I have more energy? Yes and I am attributing it to the Chia seeds.
,,,,,Super Chia Seeds,I tried the chia seeds because I was told they are a great source of fiber and have all the omegas in them.I am very pleased with the product and they give me enery. Would highly recommend them to anyone.
,,,,,Good item at great price,"I am not much on stuff like this, but having some issued that I think this item will take care of, I got some here - local shops did not carry it, prices at flea markets and food shops were - just to high. The price from Amazon was very good.<br />I no longer have need of this item - but if the condition returns - so will I, HERE!"
,,,,,Absolutely delicous product!,"I highly recommend the hearty satisfying Chia seeds, for a snack or a meal, packed with protein and fiber - I often add it to waffles and other recipes!"
,,,,,Great !,I add this to my morning steel cut oats and its awesome! A little in my smoothie is really good and I also put this in my Banana Bran muffin recipe too !
,,,,,A real Super Food,"We use these in smoothies, pancakes, waffles and even our vegan burger patties.  You don't notice them, but they add a great consistency and texture and it also helps as a binding agent in place of eggs."
,,,,,"Great buy, great brand","I'm very happy with this product. It was less expensive here than at my local Whole Foods and having purchased other Navitas items, I can say that it is quickly becoming a favorite brand."
,,,,,good carbs,I add a teaspoon to my protein powder for additional nutrition and because they have no flavor the chocolate taste is not affected plus Chia seeds thicken my concoction.
,,,,,GOT THEM SECOND TIME,"I just love these seeds, got them second time and use them more often. They gel way faster and better than flax seeds and you can substitute these in many dishes (i am vegan and I am allergic to dairy products)... Love the quality of this product!"
,,,,,Great,"I really like them, I add them to my smoothies for lunch and it makes them more filling and I like the flavor!"
,,,,,Worth the buy,"Where to start on this one. These little seeds had been on my wishlist for at least three months before i actually bought them. I am a vegan and take my nutrition very seriously. All the hype about what a 'superfood' chia seeds were i figured this was just the next new thing. I did some research, looked at the nutritional benefits and facts and figured if i hated them it wouldn't be too long until i finished the pouch. I make cream of wheat in the morning with a tablespoon of flaxseeds, one cup of almond milk, one cup water, and 4 tablespoons of a nut mixture i made of raw almonds, cashews, walnuts, dried blueberries, cranberries and golden raisins. I purposely make it loose so i feel fuller longer. The chia seeds let me keep the volume of breakfast without adding too many calories. Now my cream of wheat is not so soup like and it has extra fiber protein and the good fats. I am pleased with this product and am going to contiune to use it."
,,,,,HOLY BLOATING! Dont use too much in one meal!,"I love the Nativa brand, however, they always seem to leave out very important details on their packaging.<br /><br />I heard so many praises about how much better the Chia seeds are than Flax seeds.<br /><br />Upon arrival I opted to use these in my salad as opposed to the flax seeds I've been using.<br /><br />The Chia seeds caused the most horrible and painful bloating I ever experienced. Granted, I did use the full serving size, but since then I lowered the amount and STILL with even just a quarter of a teaspoon or less I get the bloating.<br /><br />I have since switched back to the Flax seeds which didn't wreak havoc on my intestinal tract.<br /><br />I am hoping I can find some way to use these seeds in the future because I hate seeing anything go to waste.<br /><br />My advice if you are set on trying the Chia seeds is to start out with a very low amount!!! And stick with that low amount until your stomach builds up a tolerance for these seeds."
,,,,,The price doubled!,I bought this product not that many months ago and loved it BUT no longer buying this brand because it doubled in price! I bought it for $10 originally. Will buy another brand.
,,,,,Its a seed,I bought these to put in smoothies and they do not totally grind up in the blender.  I am going to try to grind them by hand before i add to the blender. It all depends on your texture preference.  I do not mind seeds from fruits but these bugged me!
,,,,,Great product,"Tried one bag to test out and liked them enough to order three more bags.  I make eskate (sp?) using chia, water, and lime juice and I also have been putting them into homemade peanutbutter and oatmeal energy bars.  Can't speak to this brand vs other brands as this is the only brand I have tried.  I can say that I was pleased enough to stick with this brand for the re-order."
,,,,,"Great price, well packaged","These may last forever at 1T every day in my morning shake since I'm having trouble finding recipes for other ways to use these seeds, but they will keep (in a sealed plastic container)."
,,,,,NOT Whole Chia Seeds,"This was the first time I tried purchasing a food product over the internet, and as feared I was sent something other than what was pictured.<br /><br />This package contains Chia Seed POWDER, which I assume is ground up seed (or the remainder from packaging whole seeds) that you have no way of identifying whether or not has additional filler.<br /><br />Not going to bother returning a $7 product, but just disappointed when the page advertises whole seeds."
,,,,,For the birds,I was surprised by the number of 5 star reviews of this product. Its a tiny gritty seed that gets stuck in every corner of your mouth and the taste is like nothing. Kind of like poppy seeds but with out the taste. I finally ask myself why am I eating this annoying seed and put it out back in the bird feeder unfortunately they don't seem to like it much either.
,,,,,Unique product,"If you love BBQ Oysters, this is the original west coast BBQ sauce! After 30 years, it's nice to be able to buy this outside of Pt Reyes."
,,,,,Great!,"I bought the Wilton Cookies and Cream Brownie Crunch for decorating cake balls, and it was a hit.  I can't wait to try it on top of brownies.  YUM!"
,,,,,"Limited Relief, Better Than Nothing","Earth Mama Angel Baby Organic Heartburn Tea did not cure my heartburn.  In fact, I'm currently 29 weeks' pregnant, and have tried (with my doctor's approval) Tums, Pepcid (famotidine), Papaya Enzymes, pathetically bland food and loads of vanilla ice cream, but nothing has singlehandedly *cured* my heartburn.<br /><br />However, this tea does help, depending on the type and severity of the heartburn.  Marshmallow, the useful ingredient, works by helping to coat your stomach and digestive tract.  When one of my friends recommended this tea to me, she explained, ""It won't stop the acid from being produced, or stop it from coming up, but it will make the whole experience less painful and nasty.""  I couldn't agree more.  Subsequently, it's not as effective for combating the I-shouldn't-have-eaten-that-salsa type of heartburn, but is pretty useful for the 2-am-lying-in-bed-without-gravity-to-help-keep-food-down-it-just-won't-stay-down type of heartburn.  In fact, pair the Earth Mama tea with sleeping in a recliner, and the 2 am burn is no longer one of my concerns.<br /><br />The taste of the tea is sort of grassy with a bit of mint.  I don't find it too bitter to drink without a sweetener.  My best tip for making the tea work well is to start drinking it before the heartburn becomes a problem.  I usually brew a large cup to have with my dinner, then reserve a few mouthfuls' worth of the tea to sip during the night when I wake up.  The taste is fine when the tea is cold, and I find it no less effective.<br /><br />Overall, I recommend Earth Mama Angel Baby Organic Heartburn Tea."
,,,,,It Works!,"I am only 12 weeks pregnant and had the worst case of heartburn/indigestion. I was sick dawn till dusk. My mom found this tea and the first day I drank 3 cups and it eased my symptoms a bit, but continued using it. Day 2...No heartburn/indigestion at all! I am on day 4 and still going strong and feeling better than ever! Thank God for moms and this tea!"
,,,,,"Tasty tea, limited help for heartburn","This is a pleasant tea, it tastes mostly of chamomile.  Unfortunately for me, it doesn't do too much to squelch heartburn.  I'm now 36 weeks along and have had heartburn almost the whole time, and I was hoping this would help out but it really hasn't had an effect. I do like the tea just as a mild beverage, but I can't recommend it for pregnancy related heartburn."
,,,,,Fantastic!  Cured My Pregnancy Heartburn,"WOW!  I didn't expect that this would work last night, but it did!  I had the worst case of heartburn at 10 weeks along, and after not being able to eat dinner and 4 tums, it wasn't getting any better.  My best friend just bought me the Earth Mama Angel Baby tea sampler the other day and I had a lightbulb moment, remembering the heartburn tea was in there.  I figured it was worth a shot, not having eaten dinner and feeling nauseous and miserable.  Within a half an hour, the tea helped me to let out a couple of good burps and the hearburn finally eased.  I'm not usually so excited about something to go out and write a review, but am hoping this might help some other mamas 2 be in need as well.  I am putting in an order to get some more of this today.  Will be good to have a box on hand at home and at work.  The taste is very nice too, so I am beyond pleased!"
,,,,,Wonderful!!,"We first had these sardines in St. Petersburg, Russia and they were the very best sardines I had ever tasted.  I returned home and lo and behold they had the same sardines at our local market.  The next time I looked the didn't carry them anymore.  So I looked online and found them through Amazon at Taylors Market (somehow they can get these sardines at the Finnish store Stockmens in St Petersburg, but we are unable to get them in the United States).  My order will expire on March 27th and I still don't have the sardines, but I reordered today through a different supplier at a much greater cost, but I hope I receive them this time.  They are YUMMY!"
,,,,,"Constipation + Sucrose = No, thanks!","You think you're doing something good for your kid when you invest a little more to get an organic formula.  Sadly, that's not the case here.  This is a horrifically constipating formula...lots of pain and straining, guaranteed.  Having to take measures to prevent this (offering juices, water, etc) is just not a sensible approach.<br /><br />Also, the manufacturers use sucrose instead of lactose to save money, and they use a LOT of it.  With the same sweetness as country time lemonade, Similac Organic's sucrose-based formula may also set your child up for future diabetes.  Check the NY Times article for more info on this.<br /><br />Bottom line: painful constipation in the near term, possible diabetes and certainly a sweet tooth in the future...no, thanks!"
,,,,,Read this article first,"2.0 out of 5 stars Read this article first, August 11, 2009<br />By  Pregbaby (Florida) - See all my reviews<br />I thought I was doing the right thing by buying organic and thought Similac was a brand I could trust to be good for baby. That is, until I came across this NY Times article about the sugar they use... [...]<br /><br />From the article:<br /><br />Parents may be buying [Similac Organic] because they believe that organic is healthier, but babies may have a reason of their own for preferring Similac Organic: it is significantly sweeter than other formulas. It is the only major brand of organic formula that is sweetened with cane sugar, or sucrose, which is much sweeter than sugars used in other formulas.<br /><br />No health problems in babies have been associated with Similac Organic. But to pediatricians, there are risks in giving babies cane sugar: Sucrose can harm tooth enamel faster than other sugars; once babies get used to its sweeter taste, they might resist less sweet formulas or solid foods; and some studies suggest that they might overeat, leading to rapid weight gain in the first year, which is often a statistical predictor of childhood obesity."
,,,,,Our baby is perfect,"Our baby is very happy with his Similac organic ready to drink formula.<br />He is also very happy with the regular formula in the blue bottle, which we feed him when the organic is not available.<br /><br />He did not really like the formula when we had to mix it from powder.<br />He is ten months old now and he rarely spits up, always smiles and is the most content baby anybody has ever seen.<br /><br />I attribute that to awesome parenting and not to the formula."
,,,,,Excellent supplemental formula,"I was looking for a formula to supplement my breastmilk for my twins (I have never made enough). I was given Similac Advanced in the hospital in the little two ounce bottles, so I started there. When we ran out of the free samples, we tried to switch to the powdered Similac Advanced, it gave my girls horrible gas. I didn't realize that the two might be different. When we went back to pre-mix to try to resolve the gas issue, I bough a couple of bottles of the organic to try out. I felt like I would rather feed my children organic ingredients over conventional ones if all else was equal. I also looked at the Similac for gas and fussiness and sugar is the first ingredient. Um, no thanks. I felt that the organic milk ingredients were closest to the ingredients in breastmilk (what they get 3 out of 5 feedings a day), so I was happy when they took to it easily and without gas. For the record, we have had ZERO problems with constipation. If I have to feed formula (which unfortunately I do for some of their feedings), I'm glad that I have this formula as an option!"
,,,,,If you have to use formula this is a good choice!,"I am not a great milk producer and ha e had to supplement my last 4 children, with two I made my own, with the next I used the powder, not that I have my sixth baby I wanted something quick and easy but also organic.  I have been happy with this so far.  I don't like using formula but I decided it was better than killing myself with constant pumping and stressing that I did not have enough!<br />Price was better than the store, I would love to see it on subscribe and save though."
,,,,,"Baby loves, and so do we","Great product, our daughter loves this and has been gaining weight great.  We try to get as many organic foods as possible for us and our daughter.  This is one of the few options that are available in ready mix.  We don't have much time in the morning or evening so this works great for us.  First we were mixing breast milk and similac advanced and she was doing great.  Then we wanted to go to organic and moved to this.  When we were doing both breast milk and this we noticed she pooped far less, not a bad thing and never farther than 36 hours.  Now she only drinks this formula and poops a few times a day and is growing great.  We started her on this at about 1.5 months a few ounces a day (sometimes mixed with breast milk , and now she is 5 months old and eating about 32 ounces a day (a regular little chubbers).<br /><br />On a side note if you ever tasted breast milk, this tastes as close to that as any formula we tried.  Some formulas are so nasty smelling and tasting its a wonder any baby eats them...<br /><br />Cheers!"
,,,,,Good product and highest quality - I'll elaborate...,"This is a good product and very high-quality. The majority of people who post on Amazon (and the internet) are not medical providers and are not the least bit inclined in the area of sciences or infant nutrition. There's a large amount of misinformation out there and the misinformation is evident and propagated throughout the reviews for this formula. As for this product specifically (Similac Organic), it is the top echelon of quality with regard to consistency and nutritional value. We've had great success with this product and are very pleased overall as an adjunct to breastmilk. Abbott labs (product maker) is a very large research reagent laboratory for the medical sciences and they have very rigorous quality controls in-place, published research, and they also provide reagents to the scientific research community (exacting standards). That said, I would be less inclined to trust some of the other small makers of formula (ie. other organic products suggested as ""better"" in these reviews - especially the referenced small-name organic powders). All said and done, the components in ALL of the Similac products are the highest quality and monitored with advanced scientific protocols and are well-researched in published studies. I'd trust this brand - Similac, over the smaller, no-names. Plain and simple. Keep in mind it's what best suits your baby and with nascent/developing GI tracts, ALL babies will experience some degree of gas and discomfort regardless of the formula or nutritional source (even breastmilk). It's sad to see people in these reviews propagating misinformation as they are neither pediatricians/physicians. Do your own research and best to avoid those with ulterior motives, as well as the misinformative reviews and internet blogs that are overly slanted or biased."
,,,,,Awesome Similac Organic Formula,"I was NEVER going to give my children formula... after my first child was born I did not produce enough milk and had to supplement.  We tried all different types of formula from many name brands.  Unfortunately he had adverse reactions to everything we tried, including soy products.  We finally tried Organic Similac.  This was by far the most expensive, so we started with the powder.  This stayed down & he didn't have any reactions (rashes, hives, throwing up, etc).  After a couple of months he began spitting up a little powdery substance (guess we didn't mix well enough).  We then tried the Premixed Similac Organic.  Voila!  Perfect.  No adverse reactions, he was happy & healthy.<br /><br />We've had 2 more children & both have also used the Premixed Organic Similac.  Neither of them have had an problem with the formula & according to the Doctor they are all very healthy children.  To me that is what's most important. :)"
,,,,,It's about time!,"As far as I can tell, this is the only organic ""ready to feed"" formula on the US market (Earth's Best only comes in powder form).  It's about time!!!!  It's CHEAPER on Amazon than from the Similac online store."
,,,,,great product,"I switched from Similac Advanced to Organic when my daughter was 1 month old. She is almost 5 months now, no problems at all! She loves it!"
,,,,,constipation,we switched from the advance similac to the organic product thinking it would be better as we prefer organic foods ourselves. it was a disaster with our 2 month old baby getting constipated and progressively worsening her intake till she fell drastically below her calorie intake. we discontinued the product within five days and switched back to the previous similac and she is fine now. her feeding and calorie intake is back to normal
,,,,,Constipation Not A Problem if...,"Like the bad reviews say, the organic formula constipated our daughter. However, by alternating every other feeding with regular (non-organic) formula the problem was resolved. I'm a believer that some organic is better than no organic. We've used this method for 2 months and our daughter is full, happy, and growing well.<br /><br />I would recommend this if you are looking for an organic formula with milk as the first ingredient (as opposed to rice in some of the others)."
,,,,,Love this formula!,"I wanted to solely breastfeed but was unable to keep up and had to supplement formula.  I chose Similac because they are a very reputable company and I had a ton of it from the hospital.  We have used both the powder and ready made and he likes both.  He got a little constipated at the beginning but has been on it now for 5 months and no problems.  I read some other reviews about sucrose...well, sucrose is just sugar and ALL formula has sugar in it.  Other companies just label it differently and since ths one is organic it has to contain a pure sugar.  As far as the hexane goes, I did my research, ALL formulas except one (Babys Only) use the hexane method.  Babys Only contains brown rice syrup that has been shown to have high levels of arsenic..uh, no thanks.  Also Similac has been tested and found to have no hexane present in the product.  Overall my baby is healthy and smart so I am very happy with this formula."
,,,,,very convenient,i love the fact that i can get this delieved to my house with no delievy charge.it is so hard to find organic formular
,,,,,The best weve tried so far,"We have a 7 week old... He had gas and constipation problems for the first 5 weeks. We tried two different kinds of similac including for fussiness and gas and neither seemed to work. We switched to the organic a few weeks ago and saw quick improvement. I wish I could breast feed but I'm unable to, so for now this seems the best option especially since it was recommended we stick with a ready made formula for the gas problems.<br />Ive read a lot of the reviews and took into consideration the information about sucrose. I plan on talking to the pediatrician and my midwife for additional information beyond the article written about it, especially since that is from 2008. I realize the concern and I am doing research on making my own formula so I know exactly whats in it and that its organic, but in the mean time baby L eats great with this, is healthy, and has fewer stomach problems. It's middle of the road when it comes to $ - although Amazn is one of the more expensive places!!! Target has the best price. So for now it works and I recommend it!!"
,,,,,If you're worried about consitpation....,"I purchased this formula but was worried after reading the comments here that my 5 month old baby would suffer from constipation.  He did.  However, I really wanted to use organic formula so I added a few teaspoons of prunes to his cereal and within 12 hours - problem solved.  No constipation since and he has been on this formula for about 2 weeks. I give him some prune/cereal every 4 days.  If your baby is not yet on solids you might consider giving him a little apple or pear juice mixed with water.  This should do the trick also.  Don't let the constipation issue scare you off."
,,,,,THIS IS NOT ORGANIC!!! TOXIC hexane still in it!,"RECONSIDER THIS FORMULA!!<br /><br />Martek advertises this formula on their website!<br /><br />""Although Martek told the board that they would discontinue the use of the controversial neurotoxic solvent n-hexane for DHA/ARA processing, they did not disclose what other synthetic solvents would be substituted. Federal organic standards prohibit the use of all synthetic/petrochemical solvents"".<br /><br />Martek Biosciences was able to dodge the ban on hexane-extraction by claiming USDA does not consider omega-3 and omega-6 fats to be ""agricultural ingredients."" Therefore, they argue, the ban against hexane extraction does not apply. The USDA helped them out by classifying those oils as ""necessary vitamins and minerals,"" which are exempt from the hexane ban. But hexane-extraction is just the tip of the iceberg. Other questionable manufacturing practices and misleading statements by Martek included:<br /><br />Undisclosed synthetic ingredients, prohibited for use in organics (including the sugar alcohol mannitol, modified starch, glucose syrup solids, and ""other"" undisclosed ingredients)<br />Microencapsulation of the powder and nanotechnology, which are prohibited under organic laws<br />Use of volatile synthetic solvents, besides hexane (such as isopropyl alcohol)<br />Recombinant DNA techniques and other forms of genetic modification of organisms; mutagenesis; use of GMO corn as a fermentation medium<br />Heavily processed ingredients that are far from ""natural""<br /><br />quote from: Why is this Organic Food Stuffed With Toxic Solvents? by Dr. Mercola - GOOGLE GMOs found in Martek.<br /><br />This is the latest I have found on DHA in organic and non organic baby food/ formula:<br />AT LEAST READ THIS ONE*** GOOGLE- False Claims That DHA in Organic and Non-Organic Infant Formula Is Safe. AND OrganicconsumersDOTorg<br /><br />Martek's patents for Life'sDHA states: ""includes mutant organisms"" and ""recombinant organisms"", (a.k.a. GMOs!) The patents explain that the oil is ""extracted readily with an effective amount of solvent ... a preferred solvent is hexane.""<br /><br />The patent for Life'sARA states: ""genetically-engineering microorganisms to produce increased amounts of arachidonic acid"" and ""extraction with solvents such as ... hexane."" Martek has many other patents for DHA and ARA. All of them include GMOs. GMOs and volatile synthetic solvents like hexane aren't allowed in USDA Organic products and ingredients.<br /><br />Tragically, Martek's Life'sDHA is already in hundreds of products, many of them certified USDA Organic. Please demand that the National Organic Standards Board reject Martek's petition, and that the USDA National Organic Program inform the company that the illegal 2006 approval is rescinded and that their GMO, hexane-extracted Life'sDHA and Life'sARA are no longer allowed in organic products.<br /><br />BUT I went to the lifesdha website and THEY DO NOT DISCLOSE HOW THEY MAKE THEIR LifesDHA!!! I have contacted the company to see what they say.<br /><br />Also these are the corporate practices of Martek which are damaging to the environment as well written just last Dec 2011 at NaturalnewsDOTcom<br /><br />The best bet is to just avoid the lifeDHA at this time in my opinion b/c corporate america cares more about the almighty $ than your health."
,,,,,shipping time is unreasonably long,"i ordered this on 8/29/10, and it didn't ship out until three and a half weeks later. it's 10/12/10 and i still haven't received it yet. next time, i plan to order from a merchant who can fulfill it in a reasonable timeframe.<br /><br />as far as the product is concerned, i do like that the similac liquid formula in the 32oz size doesn't contain BPA. i was really upset when i researched and discovered that the single-use ready-made liquid containers and large powdered containers both contain BPA. i would expect more diligence from similac to be BPA-free in all of their packaging."
,,,,,Horribly Constipating,My child was exclusively breastfed for 4 1/2 months and I gradually introduced Similac Organic formula to supplement (my breastmilk started to dry up).  She found this was so much easier to eat she gave up on me by 5 1/2 months.  By the time I completely stopped nursing she was so constipated from the formula that I switched.  She winced and cried and worked so long to just produced a hard ball the size of ping pong ball.  It was horrible!  I realized I was the one helping her poo with nursing and then she lost all ability when she went full-formula.  I say switch....
,,,,,Constipation!!!!!,"We breastfeed our month old boy, but since his bilirubin level was still high, doctors recommended to switch to formula for 48 hours. We started with Similac Advance (Shield Plus) which we still had from hospital. First 24 hours were wonderful in terms of pooping, then we decided to switch to Similac Organic for known reasons, but during the first 32-Ounce Bottle I began to notice that his stool was getting harder, and eventually he stopped pooing (actually he produced two stone-ball like poops) and had a hard time for another 24 hours. Breast milk and Similac advance tested similarly sweet, but Similac Organic was much much less sweet. I made a research on the internet and I found the following that may help you to understand the cause of constipation: (http://www.drhull.com/EncyMaster/C/constipation_infant.html)<br /><br />Constipation means infrequent, hard stools. It does not mean grunting or straining, although your baby may certainly exhibit these behaviors when having a bowel movement. So the first question to ask is, ""Is my child really constipated?""<br /><br />Next, consider why true constipation - excessively hard, dry stools - arises. The normal function of the colon is to remove water from the stool. Otherwise we would rapidly dehydrate and die. That is why severe diarrhea is dangerous - the stool is moving through the colon and being expelled from the body so fast, there is no time to properly reabsorb the stool water back into the bloodstream.<br /><br />Conversely, if the fecal material remains in the colon too long, the water removal process may extract too much of the fecal water and leave the stool mass excessively dry and hard. It is just that simple.<br /><br />So constipation arises when feces remain in the colon too long because:<br /><br />  * the colon is naturally sluggish (has decreased ""motility,"" we say)<br />  * a low residue diet produces insufficient stimulation to the colon to trigger its normal propulsive activity and clear out the feces<br />  * a combination of the above two factors<br />  * there is obstruction of the lower GI tract<br />  o functional neurologic - the lower rectum and anus cannot properly relax to allow evacuation - Hirschprung disease<br />  o functional anatomic - anal-rectal positioning doesn't allow easy evacuation<br />  o mechanical - a tumor physically blocks stool passage<br /><br />Breast fed babies are essentially never truly constipated. This is because breast milk is such a low residue diet. Almost all of the milk is absorbed by the baby and used. The stools consist of a small amount of unabsorbed protein curds and a large amount of bowel secretions, chiefly mucus. And of course a lot of noisy gas. But these infrequent stools do not indicate constipation - just infrequent stools.<br /><br />Later, when breast feeding infants start solids, they technically can become constipated, but it is unusual in my experience. It is not until the child is pretty much on solids and especially when weaned to whole cow milk that constipation is much of an issue. By then we are really discussing toddlers.<br /><br />Breast fed infants do tend to save up after the first few months and poop less often. This worries some parents. Despite reassurances to the contrary, some folks just have to see a poop every day from their little darling to be happy and fulfilled. Go figure. They forget that stool can stay in the colon for a very, very long time and it will not hurt anything.<br /><br />When the stool hoarding breast feeder does finally get ready to go, another problem comes to the fore: grunting and straining. When the baby's rectum forms in utero, it is in a state of permanent contraction for nigh onto nine months. The baby does not pass the meconium (fetal stool) in utero until perhaps right at the end of gestation right before, during or after delivery. Until the baby is several months old, and has passed and been stretched by quite a few bowel movements, the rectum and particularly the anus may be quite tight and resist easy dilation to allow the stool to pass. Because the baby has weak, flabby abdominal musculature (that is why his little tummy is so poochy), he must push against this tight anal spincter with his diaphragm. Just as Mom pushed during delivery, and with seemingly equal discomfort. Hence the grunting and red-faced straining.<br /><br />  The other major problem of both breast or bottle fed newborns which creates this sort of straining is dyschezia, or uncoordinated stooling.<br /><br />The cure for the problem of a tight anus is pretty simple: a gentle rectal exam with a well-lubricated pinky finger by the doctor (which should be done on all babies with stooling troubles anyway to rule out a physical obstruction) will be both diagnostic and curative. If one such gentle dilation doesn't do the trick, I have Mom bring the baby back in a week and repeat the procedure. The anal spincter is stretched, and pretty soon, no more terrible straining.<br />Top<br /><br />Bottle fed infants are ""a whole 'nother story."" Infant formulas are not nearly as well digested as breast milk, and leave quite a bit more residue in the colon. (The exception to this rule in my mind is the new Similac that really does seem to leave the stools about the same consistency as breast milk.) So true constipation in bottle fed infants is much more common; my feeling is that soy formulas are even worse than cow milk based formulas in this regard.<br /><br />The young infant's colon is simply not designed for all the residue and stool bulk. The residue builds up, is dried too much, and becomes hard, pebbly stool. It is naturally difficult and uncomfortable for the baby to pass.<br /><br />The addition of cereal to the diet only compounds whatever problems already exist. Cereal + milk = concrete. Cereal in the formula bottle seems to be especially bad, probably because parents don't realise just how much cereal the baby is getting.<br />Top<br /><br />Treatment of constipation mainly involves common sense diet modifications and sometimes medication:<br /><br />  * Again, as with breast fed babies, a search for the cause of the constipation and gentle rectal exam can work wonders.<br />  * I use a lot of Karo corn syrup for bottle feeders with constipation. It is my first choice recomendation; it almost always works if used properly. Unfortunately, many doctors and nurses don't use it properly, get poor results, and don't recommend it as often as they should. I start with two measuring teaspoons in every formula bottle, regardless of size, and adjust the dose up or down depending on how things are going. Usually, the baby can be weaned off the Karo pretty soon, but may need to stay on it periodically for the first few months of life. It is very important to put the corn syrup in the formula and not give it in between in water. The excess corn syrup does not get digested very well - the baby is already digesting all the sugar he can from the formula. The excess sugar passes down to the colon and produces a sugar diarrhea similar to sorbitol (as below, prunes, apple juice).<br /><br />  Before scolding me about ""the risk of botulism"" from corn syrup, please see:<br /><br />  Clinical Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Volume 4,Number 3,September 2003: ""Pediatric neurologic potpourri: cases to remember""<br /><br />  ""In the past, C. botulinum was also found in corn syrup, but this is no longer a risk factor for infant botulism because of a recent change in the processing formula.""<br /><br />  For the complete source of statement, see: Olsen SJ, Swerdlow DL. Risk of infant botulism from corn syrup. In reply. Pediatr Infect Dis J 2000;19:584-5.<br /><br />  * Certain fruits and juices - for example prunes, apple juice, apricots - are rich in sorbitol, a nondigestible sugar that passes through the body to the colon and causes water to be retained or drawn into the stool mass. They can be increased in the diet to loosen the stool and relieve or prevent constipation.<br />  * Lactulose is a non-absorbable sugar product that is processed by colon bacteria to produce an inflow of water into the stool mass. We use it a lot - it seems to be a favorite of our local pediatric gastroenterologists. The dose is adjusted up or down according to respose. Side effects are usually not serious but can include cramping or diarrhea - obviously, stop the medicine and call your doctor if these occur.<br />  * Glycerine suppositories are helpful to relieve your child if there is some hard stool that just won't come out easily. The suppository melts in the heat of the rectum and lubricates the stool. Glycerine also has a mild effect of attracting water into the stool, which softens it. The act of insertion also serves to stimulate the rectum and anus to initiate the defecation reflex. (Glycerine is completely safe - it is a food, found in candy, not a drug.)<br />  * Fiber containing foods are helpful for older children and adults, but are not really of much use in the treatment of young infant constipation, for dietary reasons: babies just don't eat a lot of fiber. (I believe ISoyalac, which was a high fiber soy formula, has been discontinued. It was never very available any place I practiced, anyway.)<br /><br />Top<br /><br />Myths and misconceptions concerning infant constipation:<br /><br />  * Iron in the formula causes constipation. No way. I can understand lay people thinking this to be the case because when adults take iron preparations (in large doses) they may become constipated. But the tiny amount present in infant formula is not nearly enough to cause any problems.<br /><br />  The irritating thing to me is to hear doctors and nurses who should know better repeating this nonsense and switching the infants to the less healthy low- or no-iron formulas.<br /><br />  * Increasing water in the diet is commonly recommended; it makes very little sense and demonstrates a failure to reflect on the basic physiologic cause of the overdry stool. The problem is too little water retention in the stool, not too little water in the body! Unless there is increased fiber or some chemical substance such as a sugar (Karo, lactulose) to retain the water in the stool, excess water will simply wind up in the diaper as urine.<br /><br />Top"
,,,,,"Great product, but price-gouged b/c of shortage","This is a great product... my baby loves it. I especially like the smooth liquid formula versus the powder since the powder never seems to dissolve properly.<br /><br />I am, however, rating this low because of the SELLER... $55 is RIDICULOUS! This product normally sells for $25-$32. But they are jacking up the price because there is a shortage of the liquid formula due to the powder recall.<br /><br />YOU SHOULD BE ASHAMED AMAZON!!!! This is food for a BABY! Makes me ill."
,,,,,Garbage!!,"Do not buy this product.  You will not be doing your infant any favors.  If at all possible, you should be breastfeeding.  (I know it's not always easy or convenient.)  If you can't then in my opinion the best formula is Earth's Best and even that is disappointing.  Basically, they dry cow's milk and remove all the natural nutrients then ""fortify"" with synthetic vitamins/minerals.  Pathetic.  Just buy whole organic milk, raw if possible.  There are recipes online to make it closer to human breast milk.  Sorry to be so matter of fact.  I'm losing patience for all these evil corporations capitalizing on the ""green"" movement.  OH and by the way the second ingredient in this garbage is sugar!!! Good way to start the diabetes/obesity while they're young!"
,,,,,No thanks,I have been searching for a natural lemonade drink mix that would actually taste good.  This is not one of them.  Did not like the the bitter taste of this drink mix. I can make my own fresh squeezed lemonade better than this stuff.  In the mean time I purchase Newmans Own ready made lemonade if I don't have the time to make my own lemonade.
,,,,,Fun... but gross!,"These jelly beans are great for a party activity (think Harry Potter) or as a gag gift. There are 5-6 different colors of jelly beans. Each color could be one of two flavors, and you won't know which until you bite into it. One flavor is good, like peach, and the other flavor is disgusting, like vomit. Yes, vomit. Some other gross flavors include pencil shavings, skunk smell, rotten eggs (the worst in my opinion) & toothpaste. GREAT party game for kids, my 10 year old & friends loved it. The only reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 is that the bad flavors are so gross that no one wants to eat them and they get spit out. So half of the jelly beans go straight into the trash. But I guess it's the novelty that makes it fun!"
,,,,,A Real Winner for the Whole Family!,"The kids had a solid hour of almost constant laughter and fun, and the grown-ups had fun as well.  This would be great for a group of children.  For each color of jelly bean there is one normal flavor and one weird flavor, and you can't tell which one you've gotten until it's too late.  Some of the weird flavors, like Toothpaste and Pencil Shavings, are simply unusual. Others, such as Centipede, Rotten Egg and Skunk are truly VILE!  The spinner really helped the kids use this as a game, and they loved it and still talk about it."
,,,,,Hillarious Reactions!,"They are what they claim to be.  The sweet flavors are sweet, and the gross flavors are GROSS!!!  My 5 & 7 yr. old boys loved these from the Easter Bunny, but I thought the adults that were adventurous enough to try them had even more fun with them.  You can't tell what you get by sight or smell - not until you bite into them do you know the truth! Highly recommended if you are into this sort of thing!"
,,,,,Fun Game for the kids,My daughter played this game at school and just loved it. She wanted to have it at home to be able to play with her friends and family. Its a really fun game until you have to eat one of the terrible tasting jellybeans !!!
,,,,,Entertaining at it's most disgusting level!,"This is the best price that I've found for this entertaining, fun filled, disgusting game.  Each jelly bean of the same colors have two flavors, one as it should be and one that is mostly disgusting.  If you purchase this sadistic game, you should also purchase an additional box of replacement jelly beans, sold separately."
,,,,,Really Cool Game!,"This was purchased as a game for my thirteen-year-old daughter's Harry Potter themed get-together to celebrate the release of the final movie.  The jelly bean game is loads of hysterical fun, and fit very well with our theme.  :)"
,,,,,BeanBoozled,This product arrived very fast and perfectly new.  The kids had so much fun playing the game.  It is a birthday party they will never forget!
,,,,,"Fun game, not enough of each color to really play","Got this as a gift for the office.  It's nice to get people to take a break from work to see what they get.  Unfortunately, its not well mixed.  It's almost gone and so far, all the black ones are not the licorice (and that is the good flavor compared to the other one, ick!), same goes to the white ones and the there was only one pair of the blue to be played :("
,,,,,Great fun for everyone,"I bought a few boxes of these as gifts for my Daughter and her family at Easter time. They were the hit of her household, when family and friends came by, they all enjoyed spinning and trying out the flavor beans they won. Awesome fun!!!"
,,,,,I feel BeanBoozled,"I got a call from my mother-in-law last night thanking me for her birthday present I ordered here. She thanked me for the surprise and also had to comment how terrible they tasted. She asked me if it was supposed to be a joke on her. I said no and felt bad a 93 year old lady ate some bad jelly beans.<br /><br />Won't buy again,<br /><br />Steve Baker"
,,,,,"My dogs love these.  Made in China, which worries me.",Both dogs love these treats and they have healthy components.  The only reason I gave 4 instead of 5 stars is that these are made in China and that worries me.
,,,,,Ok Coconut popcorn,"Taste is just Ok, a bit greasy compare to 94% fat free micro kettle pop corn bags (purchases here at better cost.) Coconut flavor is like coconut flakes flavoring.<br />Not a good value since you get 18 bags for $30. Purchased it because I wondered about it since I love Coconut.<br />Won't buy again because of the greasy feeling and high cost."
,,,,,best of Folger's,I've tried several of the different FLAVORS of Folger's - this is the best - the old stand-by!  It makes a good cup of coffee every time.
,,,,,THE OLD STAND BY !,"I found this is one of the easiest ways to shop for coffee. The Subsribe and Save program saves you money and you never wake up to an empty can. FOLGERS Coffee Ground Classic Roast, 33.9-Ounce Packages (Pack of 2), is priced well and I prefer the CLASSIC ROAST better than the fancy coffee house brands. As another reviewer stated it "" as the old stand buy.""<br /><br />I love to shop online. It is often cheaper and without hassle. I could drive to Wallet World, park and fight the crowds, hopefully find my specific brand, stand in line and wait for the person ahead to clip their coupons, have their CC declined, write a check, etc. OR I could login to Amazon and click one button, then wait two days for my no sales tax, free delivered product. Please don't get me wrong, I like to shop at the big box stores, when I have time, but usually I shop online.<br />Trip to grocery store, $10 , two canisters of coffee $16, plus tax and hassle. Have is delivered free without tax for $18. Without the hassle.<br /><br />PRICE: C<br />CONVIENCE: A+++<br />TASTE: A"
,,,,,Great Coffee,"Folgers is good coffee, we order it regularly. Prefer the mild-medium flavors. Coffee is always fresh tasting, good to the last cup! Even after setting for a time it does not taste bitter. Get many cups of coffee from this size."
,,,,,Coffee review,"I think Folgers is an excellent coffee choice. I have been drinking it ever since I have been drinking coffee, about 30 years. It is good at the beginning of the pot and just as good at the end of the pot."
,,,,,good coffee,I use this coffee with my toddy cold press system and it makes a very smooth cup of coffee. I so far have only used Folgers coffee with the system and see no reason to change as the end result is so very good.
,,,,,Wonderful!!!,I sent this to some friends who helped me out when I had surgery. It came and was beautiful. All of the items were really good and shipping was fast. VERY PLEASED!!!
,,,,,Easy,This ediable image is easy for anyone to use. My man is into bass fishing so this was the perfect cake decor. He LOVED it!
,,,,,Excellent!,"Excellent product. This is the first time my seven year old has had an ice cream cone in three years. When I brought them home, I thought she was going to jump out of her skin! After she had her cone, she asked for more and even upon receiving a ""no,"" she still had the biggest smile on her face."
,,,,,Don't buy if you're allergic to chocolate,Be careful if you have a chocolate allergy.  The last box I purchased has cocoa powder as the ingredient and the cones are brown.  I know previous boxes did not contain cocoa powder and were a normal cone color.  The distributor should market these as chocolate cones and not try to pass them off as something else.  Note:  Be especially leary since this seller doesn't list ingredients.
,,,,,Works great,We have two large dogs whose urine yellows our lawn.  We give them the recommended dosage with their dinner and it has significantly stopped the yellowing of the grass.  Good call.<br /><br />Bottom line- buy it.
,,,,,#1 superfood,"Nutritional benefits of Chia seeds are amazing. Here are a few to start:<br /><br />*According to studies, Chia possesses the highest percentage of the polyunsaturated fatty acids(linolenic and linoleic) of all crops. Chia seeds contain 60% omega 3 fatty acids.<br /><br />*The protein content of Chia is higher that other nutritional grains. Unlike other grains, it is a complete protein, meaning that it has the appropriate balance of all essential amino acids. About 19 to 23% of chia seeds weight is protein.<br /><br />*Chia seeds are high in fiber, a 15 gm serving of chia seeds will provide 4 to 5 gm of fiber. Our body requires at least 35 gm of fiber a day to stay healthy.<br /><br />*Chia seeds contain boron which is essential for bone health.<br /><br />*Chia seeds are rich in calcium, about 2 oz of chia seeds contains 600 mg of Calcium, as compared to 120 mg for a cup of milk.<br /><br />*Chia seeds have 2 times more potassium than banana.<br /><br />*Chia seeds have 3 times more antioxidants than blueberries<br /><br />Regardless of the astonishing nutritional values of Chia, it also tastes very good. My girlfriend and I make a big pot of ""steel cut"" oatmeal at night (the quick way is throw a cup of oats in 4 cups of boiling water and just let it sit overnight), put in a good helping of chia powder, and the next morning you have a wonderful breakfast that could last all week depending on how many people are eating it. Feel free to add a little cinnamon, peanut butter, fruit, or your own oatmeal favorite additions.<br /><br />There are many other recipes for eating Chia, but oatmeal is my personal favorite.  I started eating Chia last year after reading the NY Times Bestseller 'Born to Run' about how a tribe of Mexicans that eat Chia will drink beer, smoke tobacco, and then run up to 500 miles in a footrace the following days.  One of the primary contributors to the tribal Mexicans' seemingly supernatural physical ability is that their diet is full of the nutrient-rich Chia seeds. I haven't put in 500 miles.  But after previously failing to finish a 26-mile marathon without chia in my diet, I added chia to my diet and my knees allowed me to finish my first 26-mile marathon!  Could the Chia have helped?  I think so.  I certainly had more energy and my joints felt better my second attempt at a marathon when ""on"" the Chia.<br /><br />I started out paying an arm-and-a-leg at Whole Foods for Chia powder, but have since started buying them on Amazon for a fraction of the price. My suggestion is to get some Chia and make a delicious bowl of oatmeal for one of the healthiest breakfasts possible."
,,,,,This Stuff Tastes Pretty Good,"Although I eat a ton of fruits/veg, I have to admit I was looking for a ""quickie"" fiber boost, and I wanted to avoid psyllium because of the phytic acid properties that block absorption of certain medications and supplements (I take many of the latter).<br /><br />Sprouting reduces phytic acid, and is recommended by many in the nutrition communities for ""safely"" preparing oatmeal, barley, etc.<br /><br />So I got the sprouted Navitas brand chia powder shown here, but at Whole Foods.  I have to say...this stuff is terrific.  I put 3 TBs (1 serving) in about 1/4 cup of warm filtered water, and stirred it, and watched as it kind of puffed up...tasted it...and you know what?  It kind of tasted like oatmeal or barley.  I intended to add this slurry into my green smoothie, but I liked the way it tasted so much, I just ate it with a spoon.<br /><br />My recommendation is to add a little warm water to the powder, and stir it up before mixing it into whatever you are eating--or just eat it straight as I did.<br /><br />I'm going to buy this brand in bulk at Amazon--and I'll make sure it is the sprouted powder and not the seeds.<br /><br />By the way, I read on a review posted about the Navitas chia SEEDS that they make a kind of ""tapioca"" by adding coconut or almond milk and stevia to the chia seeds...so I tried doing that with the powder...it created a kind of soft, puffy pudding texture, and it was definitely in the ""treat"" category."
,,,,,Chia--great for cholesteroal,"I have had persistently high cholesterol for years.  Allergic to statins, zetia made me sick--nothing pharma came up with worked for me (I am a workout fiend and half vegetarian).  My total cholesterol was always 220 or higher.  After one month of chia powder, it was at 187.  Nearly miraculous!"
,,,,,not what is in the bag,"I ordered and got seeds.  Called, got a refund and reordered... got seeds.  I'll have to order the sprouted chia seed powder elsewhere. :)"
,,,,,tasted yuk,Gave it to my daughter who uses it in recipes but I wanted to use it in smoothies.  It tasted to bad to me.
,,,,,tough to take,"Ugh, this stuff may be good for me but it's not appealing.  I mixed it in my oatmeal for a while, and it was fine that way (but sticky).  But I didn't notice any obvious effect and I've slacked off."
,,,,,Good miso!,"This is a good miso base. I make true miso soup, by adding nori seaweed, cutup scallions, tofu, etc. I almost didn't buy it, based on the poor review on a similar product, but I'm glad I did. It's tasty!"
,,,,,Good Product,This is a very good value.  I use it to put in many Asian recipes instead of chicken or vegetable broth.  The result is a more authentic Asian taste to my recipes.
,,,,,Quick & Easy,"I love this product, very convient serving packages and only needs some ginger and cayenne for healthful benefits. Miso & ginger helps with clogged arteries & good general tonic, Besides being a very yummy cup a soup."
,,,,,Healthy Flavoring Alternative,We love Miso Cup soup!  We use it to flavor our ramen. It is much healthier and tastier than the usual salt and MSG! The price on Amazon is great too! Less than half the price we were paying in a local health food store.  Thanks Amazon!
,,,,,Don't Buy -- Dreadful!,"I like Japanese soups and just love the similar products from San-J (also available from Amazon -- get those, they're 5-star!).<br /><br />This Miso-cup brand is terrible. I can't tell you more than this is just yicky. I wish there was a zero-star rating!<br /><br />I didn't finish the first cup even (but I'd already tried and re-tried another Miso-cup flavor and hated it). Therefore, I only used one envelope before giving away the rest. Oh, why did I stray from San-J? Actually, I thought it might be worth trying Miso-cup's different flavors to add variety to my afternoon broth experience. It was this flavor, in particular, that I was most interested in trying for variety. But now I know that ALL the Miso-cup brand are equally dreadful!!!<br /><br />I gave these and the other Miso-cup boxes to a Food Pantry BUT I told them first why to warn others it might not suit them. Get the San-J brand!!!"
,,,,,bad soup,I did not enjoy this soup; I will try a different brand next time.
,,,,,Jablum coffee beans,"This coffee is smooth and is not bitter at all. It is wonderfully aromatic and a rich flavor. I personally bought the beans in Jamaica but it was only $12 for 12 ounces, I have seen such inflated prices on the internet for this product and truly it is not worth it."
,,,,,The best coffee ever,"There is a reason they serve this coffee at the White House.  Its the smoothest, best coffee ever produced.  Low acid, smooth in the mouth, and it has the most intoxicating aroma.  Worth the price."
,,,,,Disappointed,I was very disappointed with the quality of the coffee. I have purchased Blue Mountain coffee before from other places and it was always great. But this was totally unsatisfactory. It had a mildewed flavor to it like it had been stored for a long time in a warehouse that was damp or moldy. For the money I paid for it I was quite displeased and will NEVER buy from them again.
,,,,,jablum dont buy it,"My son had this Jablum roasted and ground coffee brought back from Jamaica and paid a lot for it.  I have drunk blue mountain for years when I can but this was shocking.  It tasted stale when you opened the bag and even worse when you drank it.  It was definitely off.  He bought 5 bags and every one we tried was the same.  I would never buy another.  We had bought another brand in a tin from Jamaica which was fine.  I think this is a con.  You get all the rubbish about it being tested in Jamaica, well I dont know who tests it but definitely not someone who likes good coffee.  I just dont understand how people say its any good. Maybe having paid so much for it its like the emperor's new clothes."
,,,,,The best we has yet,We heard about this coffee before leaving for Jamaica so we pick up some and have fell in love with it.  The best we have had yet smooth without that bitter after taste so many other coffee have.
,,,,,"Excellent coffee, not all that exotic, though...","I love my coffee, and because of that, I have tried lots and lots of varieties although I began as a simple Folgers fantatic.  Jamaican Mountain Blue Coffee has been touted to be the best of the best world coffees out there by such highly esteemed sources as the Food Network and the kitchens of the White House.<br /><br />I found the low acidity of the coffee very refreshing, but the darkness of this roast has not allowed a lot of subtleness of the flavor to come out.  To me, this tastes like Folgers at its best, but nothing more than that.  Great for everyday drinking, because it is smooth and rich and leaves little acid ""bite.""  But still, after having tried Kona coffee with its myriad of subtle flavors, I found Blue Mountain kinda boring.<br /><br />I guess I disagree with experts, but hey, my coffee is important and taste is everything!  If you like exotic flavors, this isn't it.  But it you would like to have consistently smooth, rich, honest coffee, this is the one."
,,,,,Blue Mountain Experience,"I am a coffee lover of many years and as such am always interested in finding good coffees.  This was my first time to try blue mountain, and purchasing it with a gift certificate allowed me to be a bit more extravagant than I otherwise would have been.<br /><br />While the coffee is good, I don't find it to be superior to other coffees I have ordered which are considerably less expensive."
,,,,,My favorite beans,"These are some of my favorite beans. I've purchased this brand a number of times in various roasts, and I've never been disappointed. Whether you use them in your French press, your espresso maker or your conventional coffee pot, some of the best tasting coffee you can imaging comes out of this bag.<br /><br />Definitely recommended."
,,,,,"Love Blue Mountain Coffee, Hate JABLUM","While in Jamaica, my wife and I drank Blue Mountain Coffer every day and loved it.  We even went on a bike tour of the Blue Mountains, and purchased some coffee.  It came in a plain clear plastic bag, and we could see the darkness of the roast.  We enjoyed that coffee.<br /><br />In Ocho Rios, we bought some bags of JABLUM.  You can't see the darkness of the roast, and all you can smell is the burlap bag.  When we opened it up, it was a very light roast, not much fragrance, and once brewed, the coffee tasted a lot like dirt.  We were very disappointed."
,,,,,"Good coffee, but not great","I bought this coffee in Jamaica ($15 for 1 lb bag).  While I liked and enjoyed it, I prefer several coffees from my local shops at about the same price.  I think that it may have been worth the $15/lb, but no more.  Certainly not at these prices."
,,,,,Only 2 of 3 16 oz. received in shipment,"I recently ordered the 16 oz., 3 Pack.  When my FedEx order arrived on December 26, 2008 there were only two 16 oz. bags contained in my order.  I would like my missing 16 oz. bag to be sent to me or at least be refunded 1/3 of my $105 charged price."
,,,,,Don't believe the hype...,"Went to Jamaica last May and brought about 6 pounds of this and the Waldenford's Blue Mtn back with me. About half what you are paying here, but still not worth the money. It is good coffee. No question. But don't believe all the hype. I am a casual coffee drinker and someone that takes coffee more seriously might get more benefit from this coffee. To me, not the case. I order my Peet's Arabian Mocha Java online for about $14/lb and it is still my favorite coffee."
,,,,,P.U.,I don't get all the hype over this coffee. Not much of a head on it. Doesn't taste that great. What's the big whoop?
,,,,,the greatest stuff ever!,"I love this stuff!  It tastes like ice cream, just not cold.  Seriously, if you haven't tried this, you have to!!"
,,,,,Garden of Eatin` Red Hot Blues,"Not what I expected at all, there is no punch to these chips like I thought there would be. Not spicy or hot but rather just disgusting. The flavor is off and the after taste is god awful. I ate one corn chip and decided I did not care for them so I ate something else to get the flavor of poop out of my mouth, because that is what these chips taste like, and I can still taste these poo chips.  I will not be buying these chips again at all.  There blue corn chips are really great, but the so called red powder they put on these is just so off."
,,,,,Those Red Hot Blues are one bad mutha...,"You watch your mouth!<br /><br />Simply, one of the best things I have ever eaten. Healthy organic blue corn chips with taste that packs a punch.<br /><br />I won't waste your time reading about these when you can be enjoying them instead. Just note that some bags seem to have a more generous allotment of cayenne pepper (the special ingredient that distinguishes Red Hot Blues from the standard Blue Chips). Or perhaps certain bags settle more during shipment, in which case the bulk of the cayenne dust is to be found at the bottom of the bag. You can always scoop up the loose seasoning and sprinkle on the chips (or any food! LOL) as you see fit.<br /><br />P.S. Amazon needs to figure out how to share reviews across products. In this case, for example, there are at least four different listings for Red Hot Blues. The only difference is the size of the bag or the quantity of bags that are bundled together. I am posting this review in those as well because other than one listing, none of the others have any reviews. Hopefully this will be of some help to customers, plus point them toward the main listing (the one with Free Shipping and sold directly from Amazon!).<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000EQYW0E"">Garden of Eatin' Tortilla Chips Red Hot Blues, 9-Ounce Bags (Pack of 12)</a>"
,,,,,"...a bit pricey, but SO versatile...!!","Kinda expensive for cheese product...would expect ssomething closer to the $3 per pound price I can get in the supermarket, but it is so versatile...can be used in any recipe that calls for cheese.<br /><br />My favorite use is to SUPER-CHEESE both store brand and even Kraft boxed mac-n-cheese...sometimes that little packet of cheese powder just doesn't give me the cheese-i-ness I want...so after mixing the mac-n-cheese according to the directions on the box, I put a few slices of Velveeta on top, nuke it for a few minutes, mix it in, and VIOLA..!! Try it, you'll never want to eat mac-n-cheese out of the box again."
,,,,,THE American comfort cheese,Great chesse to make snacks with. Melts so easy and has a wonderful flavor. This is the ultimate in american comfort cheese.
,,,,,Way over priced for the size,"I spent close to $4.00 for each cube which turned out to be the 16oz size.  I know it says that upon further review but I was assuming it was the 3lb size because that size is $3.99 at the grocery.  And I just paid the same thing for the 1lb size?!  Shame on you Amazon.  Or better yet shame on me.  The expiration date is fast approaching too so I'm not even sure I'll use these up in a month.  I was very disappointed in the price as well as the expiration date.  I had the same issue with some sunflower seeds I bought recently, they expired before baseball season even started.  However, I did get what I paid for...it's just my mistake for not realizing the size was not what I thought I was getting.  Who would pay that for the 1lb size?"
,,,,,Thought it was a good idea,"I am giving these two stars because they did taste sorta good at first.  But like the other reviewer said they do smell funny and they left a bad taste in my mouth.  And they are very salty.  I only cooked them for 90 seconds, the bag was still expanding when I stopped it but they smelled burnt when they were done (they said to cook until it stopped expanding but thank goodness I didn't do that).  Nice idea but I don't think I will buy these again."
,,,,,Ms. Mac's Review,I loved this item.  I wish I could find it in the stores.  Walmart carried this item in Louisiana for some time. When I travel to Louisiana I sometime can find this item at Fred's.  I have not found this item in the Houston area.  Easy to prepare and a great conversation piece.  No one here has seen this before.  I purchased this item at Amazon.
,,,,,Lowery Microwave pork rinds,"Our Wal-Mart use to sell these pork rinds, but they haven't for probably 5 years. I hunted all over the place for them, until I finally found them. My husband loves them, he works so hard, I figured I'd get him something he loves."
,,,,,"Great crunch, best taste even better when hot.","I love both orignal and spicy flavored, great any time during day or night.  Fresh and warm a treat that is usually only available cold and with two flavor choices."
,,,,,very good,Very good if you want to be on a Paleolithic diet. Very tasty when warm. Cooks great.  A great fast snack.
,,,,,tasty & good value,"When I read the reviews, I noticed someone mentioned the box was light.  It is, but it holds a lot - these pork rinds are compact; they expand when cooked, so there's a lot more in the box than it looks like.<br /><br />As snacks go, these are high in protein and low in carbohydrate.<br /><br />I think this is a really good value, and these are very flavorful - I especially enjoy them with bean dip.<br /><br />The only thing that I'd change is, I'd like a lightly salted version; I don't always want that much salt."
,,,,,let's be serious,eating my first bag as i type.  awesome.  some puffed up to be light and puffy; others didn't puff up as much and are much more crunchy.  Which i like!  might be the best pork rinds i've had (outside of central america street carts)
,,,,,Great,"Great product, I never cook this in the microwave because sometimes it takes longer and not all microwaves are the same.  I've read people reviews and they said there were small brown pieces that were hard, that means they were not cooked long enough.  The best way to cook these are to use a medium size pan, pour the pack into the pan and shake it around and bake them in the oven @ 400 degrees for 4-6 minutes, keep a close eye on them because they burn easy.  But it is worth it to cook it in the oven, very hot and fresh and no uncooked curls.  They will appear to be brown at first but they ""poof"" up in the oven once they're heated.  I would say do not microwave these in a bag, use a oven safe plate, that way you can actually see them puff up, older/cheap microwaves can take 4-6 minutes to cook."
,,,,,so good,These are so much better than the pre-packaged ones.  Not too many calories.  I cook mine for 2 min and 20 seconds in a very small microwave.
,,,,,Lowrey's Pork Rinds,"I live in the Kansas City Area and could not find them anywhere.  I had bought them before at the Commissory in Leavenworth but couldn't find them here.  Someone recommended checking Amazon.com and I was thrilled to find them there.  They are easy to fix and if you like pork rinds, you won't go back to the bagged ones."
,,,,,Tasty,"Tasty, spicy, and good. Became quite the conversation piece at work. No one have ever  heard of microwave pork rinds before. They tasted them and love them. Only draw back depending on type of microwave as to how they will cook."
,,,,,microwave pork skins,I was so excited to receive the product I immediately cooked a bag.  What a disappointment!!  The taste of the pork skins was there but it was buried by some spice that I didn't enjoy.. I couldn't finish the bag!  My dog wouldn't eat them either ans she eats everything - including brusell sprouts!  I have had microwave pork skins that were good but I don't remember the brand so I'll just have to do without
,,,,,Lowrey's Microwavable Pork Rinds,"These were a great quick snack that did not raise my blood sugar level and you could sprinkle a variety of seasons to your taste preferences.  However, I chose to use the auto ship. Because of new health issues, I am unable to eat these anymore.  However because Lowrey's does not give you any option or information on how to cancel an order, I am forced to waste money buying these and having to toss them.  I hate to write this here, but maybe if they read it, they'll add the contact information.  Thank you."
,,,,,Nom,"I absolutely love these. A friend had found them in a random store down in Oklahoma a long time ago, and I thought they were awesome. But as I don't live in Oklahoma, and can't find these anywhere in the MN area, Amazon having them is awesome. They're low carb and taste pretty great."
,,,,,Micro Pork Rinds,"We own a small neighborhood bar and the patrons enjoy having the novelty of fresh, hot pork rinds served to them with their beverages."
,,,,,"Pretty good, but I am not sure that I will buy again","It was quite a commitment for me to buy this quantity of pork rinds from Amazon but I decided that I would ""give it a go"" since I like the pork rinds that are sold in grocery stores and I figured that these could only be better since they'd be fresher when microwaved.  They taste great and I think that they have the perfect amout of spice.  HOWEVER, two things....the smell is ""funky"" when they come out of the microwave.  Regardless of the taste, I can't seem to get used to the smell.  Secondly, when it comes to popcorn, I have to pop popcorn less than the directions on the package in my microwave or it will burn.  I found it to be the opposite with these pork rinds.  I had to cook the port rinds LONGER than the directions say on the package, otherwise they wouldn't be popped nicely and were a bit chewy.  So if you find that you cook these and they don't seem crispy enough, cook them in your microwave longer than the directions say to do so."
,,,,,Best EVER!,"These are the best pork rinds around, near and far.  They are warm and just melt in your mouth.  This is a dangerous addiction, you've been warned!  ;)"
,,,,,spicey pork rinds,"Awesome!!  I love 'em cracklin out of the microwave!!! This snack is also not nearly as bad for you as, chips or other snack!!"
,,,,,Great item,"I was never a big fan of pork rinds. But since I started doing Atkins, I was buying them sometimes to fill that desire for a crunchy, salty snack.  I ended up only buying the hot variety since it seemed to cover the taste of the rinds better than plain or bbq.  After reading the reviews here, decided to give these a try.<br /><br />I had never had anything other than the bagged variety of pork rinds.  As others have mentioned here, these are far superior to anything you will find in a bag.  Way, way better than any bagged variety I have sampled.  Plus the make this great popping, crackling noise when you take them out for a minute or so that I greatly enjoy for some reason.<br /><br />Do mind the cooking instructions.  If you overcook, they will end up tasting closer to the bagged taste you are trying to avoid.  Still better than bagged though.  I tried different times in my microwave but found it best to watch and take them out as soon as the bag stops rising.  You will sometimes have some that did not expand(you can pop these back in the microwave to try and revive them) but it is not worth burning some of them to try to ensure all have expanded."
,,,,,YUM!!,"Why am I just learning about these?  They are delicious.<br /><br />Enough in each individual bag for 2 people to share.<br /><br />Low cal, low fat, but not low flavor.  Highly recommend.<br /><br />Will be back for more."
,,,,,Simply Awesome !!!!!!,"I am on a low carb diet, so pork rinds were a natural. I bought the Hot and Spicy.  These are great, they taste better than any others that I have tried from the stores.  The package says less than a carb per serving (there are 3.5 servings per 1.75 Ounce package).  I would like to know how many carbs for a full package, because I often eat more than one serving.  Give these a try, they are awesome."
,,,,,Pork rind magic!,These are magical. Put them in the microwave and they literally pop into a fresh hot crackly bag of pork rinds. They're a little on the salty side but no more so than most of the pork rinds you buy in the store. Each bag fills up a large cereal bowl. Good for a little snack when you need it and you don't want popcorn.
,,,,,"A for freshness, but d*mn are they salty.......","I was so excited to see these! And the price is good.<br /><br />First, it takes a little learning to figure out how to cook these. The instructions are not much help. ""Stop cooking when the bag stops expanding""....they might as well say, perform a Vulcan mind meld with the pork rinds to know when they are done. I found that the bag's expansion--or not---has little to do with whether they are done. I have a 1200 watt microwave and 1:30 was perfect. 1:00 and they were not cooked, 2:00 and I had charcoal bits.<br />I had to sacrifice a couple of precious bags to figure this out.<br /><br />Taste and texture? Well they are infinitely better than bags of pork rinds from the store. The texture is very good. The taste? I am in no way shy of salty food, love me some salt! But these were borderline too much for me. I did sprinkle some cinnamon and Ideal on them to make them sweet and I still had a hard time eating them. My husband liked them this way though.<br /><br />If they could back off the strong salty flavor, I would buy these again. As it is, I'm going to use them to make low-carb nachos. I won't be reordering them though. Love the crispy texture! But can't choke down the overpowering saltiness."
,,,,,Love the bacon curl,"I love these bacon curls or pork rinds as some call them. I was so happy to find them again. Easy, delicious and high protein snack --- I eat them every night watchng tv. Never had a bag that didn't perform well........LOVE THEM!!!!!"
,,,,,Good if its all you can get.,"taste is not like other pork rinds.  but does not taste bad.  when you microwave them, the bag only pops up about half way.  when its done popping and you eat them immediately, they are pretty hot and seem to melt in your mouth.  needing much water and a brushing to get the rinds and the taste out of your mouth afterwards.  I think the idea is pretty good, but the product did not turn out how they expected in my opinion."
,,,,,Delicious!,My husband loves pork rinds...a little too much!!  The perfect fathers day gift was a case of Lowerys pork rinds!
,,,,,Best snack ever,"Outstanding snack, super fast and lives up to the review I saw on the food network.  Just make sure you shake the pkg really good before microwaving.  All in all SUPER!"
,,,,,love those rinds,"Can't find this product anywhere except on-line. I guess no-one enjoys them as we do. Same kind of hicks that don't like boiled peanuts I guess. Anyway, product is wonderful and was shipped promptly. Hope to continue buying from this seller."
,,,,,"Tasty, easy no carb snack.","Really easy to prepare and very yummy. With my microwave I put them in for 1:40 and they turn out perfect. Warm, crunchy and tasty. And without the carbs, they don't impact your blood sugar which is a real boon for us diabetics."
,,,,,Not quite what I expected,"These are an okay snack. They don't puff up like the Pork Rinds I have had in the past. The quantity of rinds in the bag seems lacking. There is a unusual taste as if some type of seasoning added that I can't figure out. If you want a salty snack with no carbs they are okay, I, however, will not buy them again. I'll stick with the regular puffed up ones or cracklings. These don't fit in either category quite the way I expected."
,,,,,Pork rinds,"I saw these in a bar in wyoming somewhere.  My buddy loves the hotnspicy pork rinds and when I saw these microwavable ones I had them sent as a joke, however he said they were great and tasted just like the ones in a bag.  Nice"
,,,,,I love them!,"I've had pork rinds in the bag and all, and they were usually stale with no flavor.  Since these are cooked fresh, they come out nice and warm.  They have a slight bacon flavor and aren't greasy like potato chips are.  A little salty, but very good.  I can't find them in any of the stores here either, so I'm happy Amazon has t hem."
,,,,,Love At First Bite....,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000UP8QQ0"">Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds, Hot & Spicy, 1.75-Ounce Packages (Pack of 18)</a> In order to appreciate the taste of a ""fresh"" Pork Rind, head to a Meat Market that has them.  There is no comparison to that ""Rind"", with the ""traditional"" store version.(Bagged)  Lowrey's Microwave Pork Rinds came along and created the perfect answer and a new experience for true Pork Rind Fans!! Usually, each bag will create 11 to 15 Large pieces, and some smaller bites.  The best way to eat them is immediately after removing them from the Microwave, when they are Hot and Chewy. (Cook Times Vary: 2:15 min./sec. for me) Airtight package when it arrives, and is not too spicy for those Non-Chili eaters.  They were sold in stores up until 2 years ago, and may still, but Amazon is the only place I know that has them when you want them.  Every bag is seal wrapped and can be stored like popcorn, so no need to keep the box! If anything, the novelty of this product will break the ice of any party or gathering.  Enjoy."
,,,,,Snap crackle and pop of pork rinds,"Few things are as enjoyable in life as freshly popped pork rinds.  Modern technology has enabled us to produce the epitome of snack foods in a hot, fresh version.  I will be relegated no more to the listless depths of popped corn.  Pork rinds are the ultimate man chips. Very similar to microwaved popcorn, you just shake the bag and put em in your microwave for about 2 min and voila, hot fresh pork rinds.  When you pop them you have to get accustomed to the fact that they don't ""pop"" like popcorn - they just crackle a bit.  So it is a bit hard to tell when they are done and usually through trial and error you will get the perfect time depending upon the type of microwave oven you use.  Mine is 900W and takes just under 2 min. A couple of pieces will get burnt, or as I affectionately refer to as char. The bag will inflate slightly.  When they are done, you open it up and you are greeted with an aroma that is bacon heaven.  Put one in your mouth right away and it will stick to your tongue like a live octopus.  They are a bit salty so they make the perfect accompaniment to a nice cold beer.  I didn't find them too spicy, just enough.  If you want to be creative, you can throw em in a bowl right after they are done popping and throw some salsa verde or any other kind of salsa you have.  You will be greeted with a chorus of wonderful snaps like getting sizzling rice soup at a Chinese restaurant.  Throw on some shredded cheese and the result is ""man nachos"".  My wife thinks that it is utterly disgusting, even though that hasn't stopped her from eating them.  Trust me, they are delicious, but don't let em sit too long or they get soggy."
,,,,,sizzling good!,"My husband loves these so much he never wants to run out. I've always thought pork rinds are disgusting, but when he 'pops' a bag in the microwave the smell and the sizzling and the warmth and the crunch ... I have to admit they are really good!"
,,,,,"Practical and delicious. However, has preservatives!","These chicharrones are delicious, and the packaging is very convenient.  Just like microwave popcorn, the pork rinds come in a bag with cellophane around it.  You shake the bag to distribute the pork rinds, pop it in the microwave, and set the cooking time.<br /><br />The optimal time for my microwave is one minute 45 seconds, but the time will likely differ from one microwave to another.<br /><br />The only reason I'm not giving this product five starts is due to the MSG listed as an ingredient.  While I don't react badly to MSG it still makes me a little nervous.<br /><br />If you're on a low-carb diet this is a great choice for snacking or even meal replacement."
,,,,,bacon curls,"Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds, Hot & Spicy,are the best thing since microwave pop corn. especially for diabetics(0 carbs)pop one in the microwave and vanquish that craving for a crunchy snack."
,,,,,great,"These r great, only problem is easy to burn. Needs close attention while cooking. Follow the directions!! I only needed to cook these for one minute in my microwave."
,,,,,Pleased and Satisfied!,"I am doing the Atkins program for weight loss, and I was missing crunchy, crispy things. Celery just doesn't get it. Our local stores don't regularly carry pork rinds, so I was feeling a little bit left out.<br /><br />But, the Lowry's brand is one I am familiar with and so, I was pretty confident I would like them. They don't pop like popcorn; in fact, they don't make much noise at all when they are cooking. I've found that one minute forty eight seconds seems to be the best time to get the most edible rinds. BUT....one can also reheat the unpopped rinds and a lot of them will then puff up.<br /><br />Enjoy...they are worth it."
,,,,,Love these,"I was sceptical at first but after I tried the first bag, I was hooked.  Very easy to prepare.  I microwave these for a minute and a half and they come out perfect.  Nice and salty.  Fresher than the ones you get in bags at the store.  The hardest part is waiting for them to cool."
,,,,,The chips are down,"The microwave Pork Rinds are a new product to me, but they are awesome!! buying a carton of them<br /><br />was a good deal and they have far less fat and carbs than chips"
,,,,,Crunchy,Love the taste! Has a good flavor and very crunchy! Different then your normal pork rinds! Yummy!<br /> I would  definately buy again! Great buy also!
,,,,,Wonderful for that low carb crunch!,"Wonderful! Two mins in the microwave and I have a crispy, hot snack to have with salsa and Gucamole. Great for low carbers or those who want to avoid chips. Less than 4 carbs for the entire bag. The non flavored ones are also very good, but I like the spicy kick to these."
,,,,,microwave pork rinds,A terrible product we follow the intructions and did not get the the pork rinds.  We only got pieces of pork skin
,,,,,Great for low carb life style,I finally tried these noodles and cooked them in chicken broth and added to my stir fry.  Everyone liked them and commented that it was like eating ramen noodles.  Once I got past the fishy smell rinsing them I was happy with the result.
,,,,,"Great, low-fat substitute for french fries","I discovered you can use ketchup or any other condiment - bbq sauce, mayo, mustard, etc. for a great alternative to french fries."
,,,,,Warm fresh crunchiness,"The convience of micorwave popcorn, 1 carb and lightly salty, well seasoned goodness.  If you never have eaten fresh pork skins, these are a must."
,,,,,"Mmmmmm,good!","these are so addicting that i have suscribed to them.  cannot get these at the grocery stores around here.  it's a hit for movies, parties, or just even a snack.  give it a try!"
,,,,,Very Good Taste but TOO MUCH SALT,I did not find the smell to be anything but inviting.  Warm pork rinds is a concept that was new to me.  I found the taste to be very good.  I had no problems with the cook time and the bag did not collapse on the product.  My only complaint is that there was just too much salt.
,,,,,Totally wonderful if not overcooked,"Unlike microwave popcorn, you cannot hear the pork skins cooking, so only by trial and error and the wattage of your microwave will you know how long to cook these. Cooked to the proper timing, they will be fluffy, melt in you mouth. 15 seconds too long you will have a stinky unedible product.<br />It is something that you must try. I cooked mine for 1 minute 45 seconds and they were not all done. I do not know the wattage of my microwave.<br />So try them for your self. As I said, they are different than popcorn, but have the same results if left too long in the micowave, stinky."
,,,,,Tasted good the first few bags...,"But the taste got sickening quite fast. It also makes a really weird stench/smell when you are microwaving it. Sometimes it would hurt my tongue when I am eating it. All in all, I threw the rest of them away after my 3rd bag. It might just be me but I can't say I would let the guests of my home try these so I can't recommend them here to anyone."
,,,,,Snacks,I like spicy snacks and this product fills the bill nicely. I will not buy another bag from the store after tasting these. A minute twenty seconds in the microwave and they are done. When my stash gets low I'll be buying more.
,,,,,Love these!!!,This is a great alternative to microwave popcorn. This is a quick and easy snack. It's got a great spicy flavor.
,,,,,Not what I was hoping for,"Takes at least three minutes in my Micro, and some are singed while some are still old maids. Good flavor but just a little salty for me. I do not recommend."
,,,,,Disgusting.,"Too salty. But that was not even the worst of the problems. It has a weird texture (I cooked it perfectly) and tastes horrible. If you haven't eaten pork rinds before, please stay away. Even the worst popcorn tastes better."
,,,,,"Not Bacon, but still a great snack","I love reading reviews about the smell.  Have you really though this through.  We are taking pork rind pellets, and microwaving them till they expand.  It's frankly amazing they don't smell worse.  Beyond the smell of cooking rind (which I don't mind by the way), these snacks are great.  It took us a two bags to figure out the cook time.  To little and you don't get full expansion, to much and they get hard, I mean real hard.  For us it is 1 minute 30 seconds to perfection every time.  I really like the seasoning as well.  I don't find it offensively over board or chemically.  Basically it is a simple snack."
,,,,,great with beer!,"Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds, Hot & Spicy, 1.75-Ounce Packages (Pack of 18).<br />Pork Rinds are great with beer. Love it!"
,,,,,Not to shabby.,"Calling these ""Bacon Curls"" is a bit of a stretch, but they are in fact tasty pork rinds. I am fairly certain only bacon can be bacon."
,,,,,PORK RINDS,"I ordered the pork rinds as a Christmas gift for my father in law. (He is one who has everything, and if you buy him anything, he will put it up.)Then I ordered some for my husband, needless to say I took some to work with me. We all have fallen in love with them. During this time, I have contacted the grocery store and they have now put them in their store, for everyone to purchase and enjoy."
,,,,,Perfect When You Want A Low Carb Snack,These taste great and if you don't cook them all the way the tiny bits of pork rinds stay crunchy and hard (Which I love!)<br />It's very reminiscent of porchetta skin.<br /><br />I keep a case of these at work and one at home. That way I have a quick snack at the office and a nice substitute for popcorn at home. Honestly these taste better than any popcorn I've ever had. If you are on a ketogenic diet these are a must have.
,,,,,Great Snacks,For anyone who likes pork rinds and a decent spicy flavor these are the way to go!<br />Super easy to cook in the microwave and less cost than buying regular ones.<br />Great taste! Easy and not bad on carbs and fat as well!
,,,,,Best Pork Rinds Available,"These microwave pork rinds are absolutely the BEST available. Any bag of pork rinds you buy in a store are not as good. The only place I've seen their equal is the ones that are cooked fresh at fall festivals and such places. They are EXCELLENT. Do not overcook them or they will burn and be lousy. If done properly, they are the best."
,,,,,The Microwave Pork Rinds Are Surpisingly Fantastic,"I have not had pork rinds in more than 20 years and thought that this would be fun to try but I didn'nt have high expectations. Microwave popcorn is pervasive and a proven success. However, I had never heard of microwave pork rinds and it was hard to imagine that it could really work as well as popcorn.  Well it does.  I don't have much with which to compare the taste (20+ years ago), however, the texture and crispiness is just as I remembered. I like spicy snacks and as another reviewer noted, these are not especially spicy but I used a few shakes of cayenne pepper and that did the job.<br /><br />It is very important to shake the bag in order to evenly distrbute the rinds throughout the bag before putting it into the microwave.  I have also found that 2 mins 30 seconds is the best time in my microwave oven to pop all of the bacon rinds.<br /><br />I have eaten 9 bags of the pork rinds and I love them.  They are light and crunchy and it is my experience that they pop better than popcorn.  And each bag is only 1 carb."
,,,,,good seller,"i own a bar and this product, along with the regular rinds, is a very good seller. keeps customer at the bar for snacks plus puts something in their stomach for the liquor."
,,,,,Way better than pre-cooked kind,"I got these for my low carb diet. I plan to eat them with tuna salad and/or guacamole. I cooked some last night just to see how it works. They were pretty good plain, but I'm looking forward to trying them with dip."
,,,,,Low Carb  treat!,"These pork rinds are the ticket! Delicious!<br />Once you master eye-balling the rise of the bag and when to stop those microwaves, you will be soooo delighted!<br />All the rind pieces have been  puffing up  nicely  for me and when dipped in Blue Cheese dressing with tabasco sauce, oh that is part of the good life guys !!<br />Order arrived  in great shape flawless transaction - will be back  for more!"
,,,,,Great,"These are great.  Just like pork rinds out of the bag, but fresh and hot whenever you want them.  Beware they really are hot and spicy but I love the heat.  Make sure to read and follow the directions before microwaving!"
,,,,,"I Love Salt, So I Love These","Okay, first of all I accidentally ordered two boxes of these, so I am now the proud owner of way more pork rinds than anyone should have in the house. Luckily, they are pretty darned delicious. I microwaved mine for almost two minutes (because my microwave isn't the most powerful machine out there), and what resulted were hot, crispy, puffy pork rinds that taste like they should be way worse for you than they are (I mean, they're not great for you, but come on, they're pork rinds). They are quite salty, but I'm a salt fanatic, so that's a-okay in my book. Anyway, I recommend. Just don't order two boxes, or you'll be stuck wondering if microwave pork rinds are an acceptable Christmas gift. . . ."
,,,,,Great snack product from Amazon,"Amazon,we'll be back!  My daughter and I just started a very low carb diet and were searching for a snack.  The Lowrey's Micro Pork Rinds really fit the bill.  We both enjoy this snack and our diet loves it too!"
,,,,,Delicious!,"These pork rinds are delicious!  They taste so fresh, plump up nicely, and have the right amount of spice.  Plus, cooking them in the microwave, just like microwavable popcorn, is a breeze.  I store them in the freezer, along with my popcorn, to keep them fresh.  There is only 1 carb per bag, which makes a perfect snack for my diabetic lifestyle."
,,,,,Pork Rinds,"I'm diabetic and manage my weight and blood sugar levels medicine free with a low carb diet.  They don't sell these anywhere I've seen locally but in the ""south"" I would think they would be a hit!  They're a good product and blow away any already prepared pork rinds and if you're on a low carb diet it's really hard to find a crunchy snack and these fit the bill!  They are flavorful and tender yet crisp.  Thumbs up."
,,,,,TOO GOOD TO BE TRUE,"I have a G.E. 1,000 watt microwave-i cooked 6 bags before i got it right-if you like them soft and light-puffy-not hard and crunchy-try 2 min 30 secs-no hard pebbles -just light , fluffy, and totally what you want-full power 2 1/2 minutes and you will thank me...."
,,,,,Lowery's microwave pork rinds,"Great taste/flavor, medium spicy, crunchy, easy to prepare! Could be a little less expensive- approx cost is $1.00 per bag. Serving size is good."
,,,,,best microwave pork rinds,I bought several brands of microwave pork rinds and Lowrey's is the best.<br />They're very quick to heat (pending microwave) and the rinds actually<br />take shape. Available in original and hot & spicy.  Good deal through<br />Amazon.com
,,,,,Best thing since sliced bread!!!,"If you love Pork Rinds then these are the thing to get. They are light with the right amount of heat and speaking of which, almost melt in your mouth when they are right out of the microwave! I have a case automatically shipped to me every three months to make sure I don't run out! MMMMMMMM mmmmmmmmm!!!!"
,,,,,hot pig skins rock,"they are easy to prepare, great to eat and so much better hot also add hot sauce for added spice"
,,,,,Lowery's Bacon Curls,This product was very easy to prepare and was actually good tasting. Had the guys over for football party they loved them!!!!
,,,,,"Love these,but.....",way too much sodium.These are great for dieters 'cause they are low carb but the high salt content offsets that somewhat.They taste great and I'll still continue to buy them but cut back on how many times I eat them.
,,,,,Snacks,"I have not been able to find these in any grocery stores in Montana.  They are a great late afternoon snack with just the right amount of kick!  If you follow the directions on the package, they really do puff up nice!"
,,,,,Microwave pork rinds,Very good flavor and easy to prepare.  Compact for storage. Friends said they really enjoyed them and wanted more. I can't find them in local food stores.
,,,,,A Perfect Birthday Gift !,"These are easy to make and surprisingly good.  Reading the back list tells you they are low in fat, low in carbs...much healthier than pop corn or chips.  Just great for dipping in your fave dip or sprinkled with hot-sauce and lime.  Not for the low-salt diets, tho.<br /><br />Try a case...at these rates you can give a few away.  The perfect Birthday Gift for your Beer drinking Buddy."
,,,,,Found them!,My husband has been looking for this product in the store and it is nowhere to be found. He is a happy camper.
,,,,,I couldn't find these anywhere else,"Yummy-they are still crackling when you take them from the bag!  Fresh and delicious, high in protein!  Be sure not to overcook them."
,,,,,Delicious for Adkins Dieters!,"I've been low-carb dieting and I like pork rinds so I couldn't wait to try these. They're not really ""spicy"", they're more like mild in my opinion. They are good, they taste just like the pork rinds that you buy at the store, not ""bacon-y"" at all to me. The only downside is that your house will smell like hot pork rinds. It's pretty bad, I don't normally notice things like that but it's pretty smelly and hard to get rid of."
,,,,,pork rinds,My husband & I discovered this item while shopping a while back and fell in love with them.  they are so fresh when you take them out of the microwave.  We like the spices on them.  You just have to remember to take them out of the microwave as soon as the bag rises.
,,,,,QUICK SNACK,"These pork rinds from Lowery are a quick snack, but very easy to over-cook. I like the spicy and wife likes the plain. Hard to find in stores, so I order from Amazon.com"
,,,,,Great taste!,I bought these years ago at Walmart<br />and then they stopped carrying them.  I was searching the internet and found them at Amazon.  We ordered a box of each.  I like the spicy and my husband likes the orginal.  A learning process will be a sure thing until you figure out how many minutes for your microwave.  They are great and we love them.
,,,,,AWESOME,I have tried every kind of pork rinds on the market and Lowrey's microwave pork rinds are the best I've ever had.  I've given friends some to try and they totally agree with me.  The only problem is that they are hard to find.  That's why I ordered a case from Amazon.
,,,,,best product,"I used to get this product at Walmart but in there great wisdom they stopped carrying it. I love this product as it is light, easy on the diet."
,,,,,dissappointment,was really dissappointed in product... too salty and poor flavor....Convenience is what makes product worth purchasing if you like pork rinds...
,,,,,Lowrey's changed their product,"Lowrey's has changed it's microwave pork rinds. I used to love them. The last order I received was put up in a generic paper container with really flimsy cellophane wrapping. There is no writing on the paper sack whatsoever. The taste is sub par as is the amount of rinds. As I said, I used to love the product. I will buy no more Lowrey's microwave pork rinds."
,,,,,Wife likes them. I do not.,"So they lose a star because I think they smell like the devil, and taste similar. Not like pork rinds I enjoy. The seasoning salt they add is not my thing, I cant quite pin it down.<br /><br />But my wife enjoys them. So they get a good review."
,,,,,Ghastly,"Giving the other 17 bags of these to the local food shelf just seems too cruel, better to throw them away.<br /><br />I don't know what good the 'popping' does except make them sort of hot. They're too salty, have a hideous flavor, taste nothing like pork rinds. They don't even taste as good as _bad_ pork rinds. They're also loaded with chemicals I want to avoid (probably part of the source of the hideous flavor)."
,,,,,Yummmy!,"These are so good, especially when they are still hot.  I love the way they still sizzle and pop while eating.  Sometimes I sprinkle some hot sauce on mine straight from the microwave or a little parmesan cheese, depending on my mood.  However I eat them, they are really good.  Remember to shake them well for a minute or two before nuking them.  The bags do not puff up as much as microwave popcorn, so don't expect them to.  Only cook for the suggested time on the bag."
,,,,,Best thing since sliced bread,"I have ordered about 6 boxes to date, I have only had a few times that they seemed salty, I think the shaking of the bag helps much on this. You also have to watch your own Microwave as to the time needed to cook, do not over cook them or they will burn and become hard. I like to dip in Vineger as well after cooking.(You hear the SNAP CRACKLE POP)Some like hot sauce on it too.<br />I found these in a food store the first time and I bought them as a joke, but after the first bag I was hooked! I'm glad Amazon has them because I can not find any local stores that sell them anymore.<br />I myself prefer the original flavor but this is more of a personal taste then anything else, many of my friends liked the Spicy. you have to love the warm Rinds."
,,,,,yummy,My husband and I love these. They taste soo good fresh from the microwave. I was pleased to see these as a pack of 18. I can only find 3 packs at my local grocery store and they are not as economical.
,,,,,BRILLIANT SNACK!,"What an awesome snack, super easy to make and doesn't disappoint whatsoever. The flavor is totally there, they come out perfectly hot, crispy, light and stays fresh throughout the week..if you are in the mood for something salty, its the ideal snack!  Love these, they are addictive!"
,,,,,Hot and Fresh !,"If you enjoy pork rinds you are going to love this product. Hot and fresh pork rinds beat the socks off any of that bagged stuff from the grocery store that taste like steyrofoam packing peanuts. These little gems cook up light and crispy right from the microwave. They have a mildly spicy flavor that builds up as you make way through the serving but the heat never gets too powerful. The key to getting the best yield is to shake the bag before cooking. That will distribute the pellets evenly. Then you have to find the ""sweet spot"" for cooking time. Mine is 2 min 30 sec which leaves me with no burnt or uncooked pieces. I only have two minor criticisms: 1) The serving size is a little small and 2)the spice mixture is a tad bit too salty for me. Otherwise, these things are tops !"
,,,,,Pork rinds,I am so glad we can get these from Amazon! Our family loves these microwave pork rinds and we can no longer get them from local grocery stores. If you like pork rinds you love these fresh popped ones.
,,,,,UUUUUUUMMMMMMMMM and want them everyday!,This is a snack that is great any time of the day!  Just enough to share with a friend!  It is an unusual snack that I cannot find anywhere else except amazon.com.<br />I am so happy that it is available!
,,,,,Wonderful if you can handle salt,"I was delighted to be able to order these, since local stores no longer carry them.  The bags contain what appear to be chips of pork skin that were parboiled in salt water, then flattened under high pressure.  Be sure to shake them around to distribute them throughout the bag before cooking.  They expand considerably in the bag during 1:00 to 2:00 of nuking, depending on the wattage, etc., but it is a slow expansion, unlike the vigorous popping of corn.  Also, the bag  only expands about half as much as with popcorn.  When ready, these resemble the ones available in cellophane bags that were deep-fried, but these are far tastier, fresher, AND MUCH LOWER IN FAT AND CALORIES.  A whole bag is 210 calories, about 50 calories from fat.  This is less than the low-fat microwave popcorn I use.  One bag, however, has 50% of the daily salt limit for an adult.<br /><br />I especially like these sprinkled with garlic powder and dried marjoram (together).  Other herbs and spices are interesting variations, such as sage or cumin or whatever else might appeal to you."
,,,,,"Yummy, fresh pork rinds!","I love it, less than two minutes in the microwave and you have hot, crispy and fresh (key here...some of the already puffed ones in stores are stale) chicharrones, or pork rinds.  I found these on a health food site and couldn't believe it, so I ordered a box.  They are really yummy and as long as you don't overindulge, you should enjoy them every time you are seeking something crunchy and salty (and low in carbs!)."
,,,,,Amazingly Good!,"I do not like pre-cooked pork rinds, not even made fresh in the Mexican Carnecerias, but hubby likes them, so I decided to buy these.<br /><br />I was shocked to find that they were light, airy and crispy. Some bags were saltier than others, but we've cooked up about 5 so far and the majority aren't overly salty.<br /><br />Another reviewer mentioned watching them to figure out how long the cooking time should be. In our 1100 watt oven 40-43 seconds seems to be just right.<br /><br />The key is to take them out the moment the bag has fully inflated. Leave them in too long and you end up with charcoal and not enough time will make them gummy.<br /><br />Since I follow a fairly low carb regimen for health and weight reasons, I like the fact that these can be a perfect vehicle for guacamole and salsa without the carbs. I'm still trying to come up with more dip ideas that will go well with the flavoring.<br /><br />I wish they'd put out a version that didn't have seasoned salt as I'd like them with just salt and/or garlic."
,,,,,Great snack,"These are an interesting and tasty alternative to microwave popcorn, well worth trying. The spicy version is not very spicy, but has a little kick. Be careful to even out the contents of the bag before microwaving and to make sure the bag rotates freely in microwaves with a turntable. Microwave time is short, about 90 seconds. They come out hot and fresh tasting. Pieces are relatively small, about an inch square. They have a less intense pork flavor than the best pork rinds, but having them hot helps compensate. Amazingly, pork rinds are becoming ""diet food."" They have no carbs, there is a lot of air in them that minimizes the calories for the volume, and relatively small quantities are satisfying. Anyway, it is a good story to go with a tasty snack."
,,,,,LOVE THESE PORK RINDS,"THIS WAS MY SECOND ORDER OF THIS PRODUCT.  SOMETIMES ONE BAG CAN BE A LITTLE SALTY, BUT IN GENERAL, WE REALLY LIKE THEM.  I PUT THEM IN OUR MICROWAVE FOR 2 MINUTES AND PRESTO, YOU HAVE WARM PORK RINDS.  BE AWARE, THEY DO NOT MAKING A POPPING SOUND LIKE WHEN YOU MAKE MICROWAVE POPCORN, SO DON'T WORRY.  JUST MAKE SURE TO FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTION AND SHAKE THE BAG WELL TO MOVE THEM AROUND.  YOU CAN'T SEEM TO FIND THEM IN THE STORE, SO IT'S GREAT THAT AMAZON CARRIES THEM ON THEIR SITE.  FOR LESS THAN A DOLLAR A BAG, YOU HAVE WARM FRESH PORK RINDS."
,,,,,Bacon Flavored Deliciousness!,"I bought these for my dad and husband, who are doing the Atkin's diet. They love them! I live in New Jersey, so pork rinds are not that popular. I describe them to people as Funyuns texture with bacon flavor. They are very tasty, and calorie-wise, you get alot of bang for your buck. They are quite salty, however, which is not a downside for my family."
,,,,,Hard To Cook,"I don't know if I got a bad batch or something, but I could'nt get these to cook right. I followed the instructions and after about two minutes, the bag stoped expanding. I opened it and found everything badly burnt. the next bag I waited about one and a half minutes. I opened it and found half the chips uncooked. I never could find a time that either left some uncooked or some burnt. (I shook the bags and scattered the chips inside them well before microwaving each time)"
,,,,,"Lowrey's Bacon Curls, Microwave pork rinds",How can pork be bad? Truly a technical food marvel. People are stunned and amazed at microwave pork rinds. Delicious!
,,,,,Outstanding...simple as that.,"1 and 1/2 minutes and the smell will make you run for a cold drink.  Open the bag and you are in bacon rind nervona.  Albite a bit salty...just cut down on something else because these things are excellent as is... If you rated these less than 4 stars you didn't follow the directions, that's all there is to it.  10 minutes later and they are STILL popping in the bag...in most cases they won't last that long.  PUT MORE IN THE BAG..."
,,,,,Hot Rinds,These are really easy to cook in the microwave and are fresh and warm every time. They are part of my low carb diet and this is a great price.
,,,,,Great Product,"If you like pork rinds, then you absolutely must try these.  These are pork rinds that basically pop like pop corn in the microwave.  There is nothing quite like a fresh and hot pork rind.  The original flavor is great and so is the spicy, but the spicy can be a little hot.  I will never buy premade pork rinds again because of these."
,,,,,Lowerys microwave porkrinds,"This is a delicious product. It starts out as little dry hard bits of pork rind, you microwave them for the few minutes it states and poof they turn into light tasty fresh pork rinds. really cool how it does it. love them!!"
,,,,,Not just another pretty reheat,"Microwave pork rinds?  Figured it was just a bag of the guilty pleasures heated up to add taste appeal.  So I popped a bag into the microwave and surprise!  The bag popped back!  It even puffed up like Orville Reddenbacher's best.  All that in less than 90 seconds.<br /><br />Turns out the little treats are bagged raw and freeze-dried and they actually cook and puff up in the microwave.  The difference between these guys and an off the shelf bag is the difference between bagged and freshly popped pop corn.  And since they're cooked without frying or oil they are -- dare we say -- healthy?  Well, maybe not raw carrots, but a third of a bag total out at 60 calories and 2 grams of fat.<br /><br />Not so guilty a pleasure after all."
,,,,,Delicious!,"I normally eat one of these every other day, they are very delicious and better than any of the pork rinds you can buy at the gas stations.  The whole family loves them!"
,,,,,"Lowrey's Microwave pork rinds, hard to find at the stores","Microwave pork rinds. Hard to find at the store, made easy on Amazon. Fast and delivered to your front door at a better price."
,,,,,These were awesome,I have recently had gastric bypass surgery and these are a good source of protein that are quick and easy to make.
,,,,,So much better than pre-popped kind!,"A great alternative to Carb full popcorn!  Warm and satisfying snack.  Salty and crispy.  Remember to watch carefully in the microwave, the bag does not pop up so its a little trial & error the first time or two.  You'll know when theyre done when you open the bag and everybody looks fluffy."
,,,,,Nothing special,"I bought this out of curiosity after seeing it on the Food Network.  It does taste good.  You do have to carefully follow the directions on the bag.  This doesn't work the same as microwave popcorn.  The ""bake"" time is quite short, and overcooked pork rinds aren't pretty or tasty.  I think that in the future, if I want warm pork rinds, I'll try warming up a small batch of my usual brand in the toaster oven for a couple of minutes."
,,,,,"good, not great",I have fond memories as a kid of going to the swap meet with my parents getting the biggest bag of pork rinds they had and pouring as much hot sauce on them as you could handle. Now that pork rinds can be considered a health snack I bought this box thinking I could have a decent snack every day. Well they pop up great in a large enough microwave. The issue is the seasoning. There is way way way too much salt in the seasoning and adding additional hot sauce makes the experience that much more unenjoyable.<br /><br />I now have these when I am pretty hungry and want to bring compact snack to a place where I know there will be a microwave but I will not be ordering these again once the box is finished.<br /><br />Oh and they aren't hot nor spicy. Just salty.
,,,,,Wayyyyyyy too salty,"They're ok I guess but each bag has about a pound of salt in it. You'll find yourself brushing away salt from each piece just for it to taste somewhat decent. Also, no matter what you set the timer on the microwave, you will have little burn/hardened pieces. So you're not even getting a whole lot out of one bag."
,,,,,Excellent snack!!!,"These are hard to find in the store and my hubby totally loves them. Bought by the case you get them cheaper than else where. Great for those on low carb. diets. Crispy, crunchy, spicy and salty. I cannot complain about this quality product."
,,,,,Great snack alternative...particularly good with beer.,"These are a great alternative to your usual ""par-for-the-course"" snacks as well as traditional, bagged pork rinds. I had the same issues with some of the others who've bought them in that finding out how long to microwave them with your particular microwave is a trial and error process on the first bag or two. On my first attempt, they ""fluffed-up"" fine, but I ended up microwaving them too long and some of them started to scorch (leaving a bad burnt smell, though not quite as bad as popcorn when the same thing happens). Spreading them out inside the bag before you start to microwave them is probably the single most important thing you can do. It's a little tricky, but you can get them to move around a bit with minimal effort. If you just throw the bag in the microwave as if it's popcorn, you won't get a quality product, but if you take the time to spread them out (as stated on the bag) and then watch the bag until it stops expanding (again, stated on the bag), they're quite good.<br /><br />Once you get the hang of it, the Bacon Curls are pretty delicious, especially paired with a beer or two (something pale and drinkable, from a ""yard work"" kind of beer to something like an IPA). The curls/rinds are light and fluffy, but very crunchy (surprisingly so, I was halfway expecting there to be some kind of greasy sogginess, but there isn't). They're on the salty side, but again, with the beer, that's a good thing. I like how they come out of the package sizzling and popping a bit, warm (not hot) and delicious. If you already like pork rinds, then this is almost a no brainer, as this is the same thing, only better (fresh, warm, delicious and with less fat)."
,,,,,Amazon's Lowrey' bacon curls,"This is an excellent product for curbing the appetite without the abundance of carbs.  They are crisp, fresh and great tasting.  Since I started eating these pork rinds, I dropped some unnecessary pounds."
,,,,,Yum!!!,"Hot, fresh, salty, delicately crisp, porky deliciousness in a minute and a half.  Can't beat that with a stick!"
,,,,,WASTE OF MONEY,"I received my shipment today, and tried to microwave four bags using different time settings. Only one or two out of each bag microwave correctly. I even put the unpopped on a plate as someone suggested and nothing. I carefully followed directions for each bag. If I could rate this, a zero I would."
,,,,,Lowrey's Microwave Pork Rinds Curls,"This product is the best! They cook up in about a minute and a half, nice and hot and crackling! Plenty of flavor to them! :o)"
,,,,,Very tasty snack!!,"I saw this product demonstrated on The Food Channel and knew I had to order it as I LOVE pork rinds but the bagged ones are usually old and sort of stale or processed tasting.  Follow CAREFULLY the directions with these for a spicy, fresh and tasty snack every time. YUM!!"
,,,,,BEST SNACK I EVER ATE,I am a big fan of eating microwave popcorn.  A friend of mine suggested pork rines I thought she was crazy.  Little did I know that they are best microwave snack that I have ever eatin in a long time . Now i can chose between microwave popcorn and pork rinds.
,,,,,Pork rinds from heaven,"The microwaveable pork rinds are the shizzazz  no grease no smell, no time to thaw, go to store to buy a package, no time to worry if they are stale or  not........just put in a bag, set timer and by the time your favorite beverage is on the table, the pork rinds will be too, all cooked and hot.<br /><br />  BE SURE AND FOLLOW THE SAFETY AND COOKING INSTRUCTIONS........."
,,,,,Fantastic Snack!,"Wow! These are great! I had them for the Super Bowl Party and everyone just went nuts over this product. Great taste and just the right snacking size. One word of caution, FOLLOW THE DIRECTIONS! Even though every bag I cooked was absolutely perfect, it was evident if you get distracted, they will burn real quick. Remember, this product IS NOT POPCORN. So there is no sound to help let you know its done. Again, FOLLOW THE DIRECTIONS! They are fabulous!"
,,,,,Awesome!!!,"we bought these after seeing a show called unwrapped, we have never heard of microwavable pork rinds, we absalutely love them!! and order them regularly."
,,,,,How to Micro These,These are soooo good but make sure you shake the bag and evenly spread the pieces out within the bag and micro for about 70-90 seconds depending on  your microwave. Always keep an eye on the bag once it blows up to its full area DON'T let it go for any longer than 20 seconds or they will burn and with the hot and spicy your kitchen and your eyes will feel like you have been pepper sprayed. Little more difficult to cook but its worth it. Enjoy
,,,,,Jeff Foxworthy says you might be a redneck if....,You have pork rinds auto shipped to your house - but I dont care - having these low carb snacks readily available is great - and doesnt impact my insulin usage. These are not your fathers pork rinds - awesome hot out of the sack
,,,,,Yummmmmmmmmmmm,Found this item in the grocery store a few years back and then it seemed to just disappear...found it here and sooooooo happy that I did!  Everyone that tried it loves it too!  Good thing it comes in the big pack!!!!
,,,,,I hate to admit it...,"...but I love these things!  Bagged pork rinds from the grocery are beyond disgusting.  They don't look, smell or taste appealing.  But fresh nuked pork rinds are a very different story.  These pigskins come out toasty and, dare I say it?  Delicious!  Significantly lighter and more airy than their grocery store counterparts.  ""They"" say you can use them to scoop up salsa or dip, but they're very good on their own, and I think the porky taste wouldn't go well with salsa anyway.  Maybe french onion dip - I'll have to try that.<br /><br />These pork rinds seemed fairly salty to me.  But when I crave chips and such, it's usually the salt (and crunch) that I'm really after, so it wasn't a problem.  Microwaving pork rinds - who knew?"
,,,,,Microwave Pork Rinds,"What a thrill to receive in their stockings - no kidding. I can't see it myself, but the rest of the family is utterly wild about these little things. Just like a mini-trip to the State Fair, warm and crackling from the microwave."
,,,,,Yummmm,"We discovered these a few years ago and they are about the only pork rinds we consume now. Makes a great quick snack.  Only complaint would be with the heat time.  Since microwaves vary so much, it is hard to determine the exact time needed to make them nice and crispy fluffy without over or under cooking.  Flavor is always consistent ... and good."
,,,,,For my brother,Bought these for my brother and he loves them.<br /><br />Hot out of the microwave and some beers.
,,,,,Not very good,"I tried these and wanted to like them, but just couldn't.  They did not seem to ""pop"" very well (a lot of wasted product in the bag) and they didn't taste very good.  I will not be buying these again."
,,,,,Lowery's Microwave Pork Rinds,"If you like pork rinds these are the best...... I buy these for the bar that I own and they are a favorite with the customers. So simple, pop them in the microwave for 2 minutes and you have fresh hot pork rinds. I have these on scheduled delivery so I will never run out, nice option. Great snack."
,,,,,Hot Pork Rinds,Many years ago I purchased Lawry's microwave pork rinds at Walmart and Publix.  And then they were gone - from both stores.  And then I got the brilliant idea to try Amazon.com!  I've actually ordered 7 cases for myself and my sons.  We're thrilled.  You'll never want any other pork rinds after you've tasted these!
,,,,,"Great product, BUT!","Great product, BUT!!!!! It's a little tricky to figure out the best time needed for YOUR microwave oven. Ours is pretty strong, and 1 minute 40 to 50 seconds is about right. However, BE WARNED! If you have an inexpensive or ""low power"" oven, the results will be very poor at best. (Just ask the crew where I work) When I tried to make a bag in the company cheap oven, it was SUPER slow to expand, and after the better part of 4 minutes, the burnt smell forced then to keep the door to the break room open for the rest of the afternoon! Bottom line....if you don't have a quality oven, don't buy these. One last word. After you remove the bag from the oven, carefully open, shake, and simply blow on them until they stop crackling. Otherwise they will seem stale until they cool. All this sounds like a pile of work, but after the first couple bags, you will NEVER buy pork rinds at the store again. I get a discount on the price because I have a box sent automatically every month. Works out to just under $13.00 a box with free shipping. Enjoy!"
,,,,,Unhappy for the first time.,"I've bought this product many times and this time (11/10) they are old or defective.  The bags don't puff up and rinds are flat, stale & burn when cooked.  I've tried different time settings and in different microwaves.<br /><br />I'm very dissapointed as this is a product I've been ordering for years.  Guess I'll have to call them and complain."
,,,,,Yuck,"Yuck, these do not taste good and they are quite tough. Better off buying the bags of rinds already prepaired."
,,,,,Good snack,"I have also tried the regular Lowrey's microwavable rinds, and both are good!  I love that they can sit on the shelf for weeks and then be microwaved quickly into a warm snack.  The hot and spicy isn't overdone - there is some heat, but you can still taste the rinds.  The heat is just enough to slow you down so you don't consume the whole bag in less than five minutes.<br /><br />I also love to hear the crackle sound when you pull them from the microwave.  It adds to the experience.  :)"
,,,,,Yummy!,"These pork rinds are a great alternative to the bagged variety in the stores.  Out of the microwave in less than 2 minutes they are warm and have a great smoky flavor.  Follow the directions, making sure you shake the bag horizontally to distribute the pieces as evenly as possible.  Watch the bag.  If you have a powerful microwave like I do-past 1600-it will take less than 2 minutes.  The little pop and crackling noise when I pour them out reminds me of pop rocks!  They are a great low carb snack."
,,,,,Hooh Weee!  Pork Rinds from a Microwave!  Y'all gotta try these!,"Pork rinds are the delicacy of the South and among various Latin American, Carribean and Asian Cultures.<br /><br />My friends introduced to me the fastest way to cure my cravings...Microwave Pork Rinds.  I was a little skeptical, at first, but since I ain't too picky when it comes to eatin', I said, ""OK.""<br /><br />Just put the package into the microwave and 2 minutes later, you're about to feast on fresh tasting crispy pork rinds.  Be careful when you take them out of the microwave, though.  They're hotter than a Coal Miner in the Month of June.  You can see the steam emanating from the package, and they're cracklin' hot.  But, Guys and Gals, this is the real deal!  They're crispy and Oh, Sooooo good, that you'll be heating up another package before you know it.<br /><br />Now, I can get them and eat them when traveling (as long as I have a microwave readily available).<br /><br />This innovation is as good as microwave tater tots.<br /><br />Mmmmm Mmmmm, Good!"
,,,,,It's like popcorn for Low Carb dieters,"I'm on a low carb diet, and it's very difficult to resist temptation when my family has freshly popped popcorn.  Now I have found the solution.  Lowry's Microwavable Pork Rinds pop in the microwave exactly like popcorn, and only 1 carb per serving!  Plus, I love the way the curls keep making the popping sound in my mouth as I eat them... like Pop Rocks candy!  I got the regular which is salted just enough for my taste.  I also eat them with salsa as a snack (which replaces chips). Crumbled on a salad is a great replacement for croutons. Thank you Lowry's for coming up with a product that is such a life-saver to my diet!"
,,,,,Love it,These are wonderful and they are approvesd snacks for the weight loss program I am on.
,,,,,Tasty!,"These microwave pork rinds are quite tasty for them to be cooked in the microwave!  My husband and I love the hot & spicy flavor better than the plain because it has more flavor.  The only drawback I see to these is that if you have an older microwave or one that is not as powerful (at least 1100 watts), the pork rinds do not cook as well."
,,,,,Great - as expected.,These are very tasty - easy to fix.  A great snack for diabetics.  No carbs!
,,,,,Lowrey's Microwave Pork Rinds Original,"Quick and easy snack.  Consistently tasty and good quality.  They do, however, require different cook times in different microwaves. Actually healthier than potato chips."
,,,,,Great,Great product and good price. Husband loves the taste and they are very flavorful when warm.
,,,,,great value for a club sized snack pack,"These rinds are so good! If you eat one, you may want to keep on buying them! Great price for a cased product!"
,,,,,Great quick snack,"I have been eating these for years. They are quick to microwave, tasty and not terribly bad for you.<br />I first found them about 10 years ago on a local grocery store shelf. Soon after, they were gone from the stores for some reason. Found them on Amazon a few of years ago, and have been ordering them ever since. Always good.<br />Tip: Make sure you store them at a reasonable temperature. I let some get too warm in my luggage, and they sort of spoiled before I could micriwave them."
,,,,,Great Porkrinds,"These are great snacks.  Being able to cook them fresh really makes them taste better than the average pre-cooked store bought ones.  Great alternative to popcorn.  I ordered both the Hot & Spicy and the Original.  I prefer the Hot & Spicy, but I like spicy foods.  You can't go wrong with either one."
,,,,,love it,"love it, i always try to tell my friends so they can buy them too"
,,,,,Best EVER!!!,These are the best I've had! The flavor is amazing and they crisp right up in no time. I've tried other brands before and they just don't cut it. I will be buying a lot more of these. I wish walmart still carried them.
,,,,,nasty,too much MSG gives it a nasty salty after taste.  i basically gave them away.
,,,,,Great Rinds!,We love these and will order again soon!  All of our friends that we shared with had to have a bag or two so are almost out.
,,,,,Hot Pork Rinds??? Oh Yes!,"If you like pork rinds... You'll LOVE these!  I got them while doing ""thrive"" and they were so good. I've introduced them to several others and now there is about 7 of my co-workers that love them too! Try them you WILL love them!"
,,,,,"Not bad, but hard to get right","I like the taste of these but they are inconsistent in texture (some are really really hard, while others are what you would expect).  You have to be careful with the microwaving part, but even when you are, it's hard to get consistent results. They also could be a little spicier for my taste."
,,,,,Great Taste-Tricky procedure,"These pork skins have a great taste. Very fresh ""homemade"" taste. The cooking procedure can be a bit tricky though. I have a 1000w microwave with a turn table and did not get the same results with each bag. The first bag I tried with 1 minute, and additional 15 second intervls, stopping at 1min, 15 seconds. Several skins had not yet cooked. So I rolled the end of the bag back up and gave it 15 more seconds. Still some did not fully ""explode"" or ""bloom"".  The second bag I started with 1 minute, 30 seconds. Slightly better results, but again I needed to re-roll the end of the bag and give it another 15-30 seconds, still using the 15 second intervals for best results.  The third bag I started with 2 minutes (which is also the amount of time that is used on my popcorn setting) and the results were not as good. Too many had over-cooked and were too hard to eat.<br />My suggestion would be to stick with the 1 minute with 15 second intervals, listening closely to the sound. (They emit a slight hissing sound when they expand).  As soon as the bag has fully opened and the hissing sound subsides, it's a good sign you have reached the optimal result.  This item is a little more work than just picking up a bag of ready to eat at the store, but the improved flavor is worth it. To me anyway.  The jury is still out on whether the ""healthy"" claim can hold water.  I will continue to use restraint and only endulge with this treat on occassion.  Good Eats!"
,,,,,lowreys pork rinds,"I love these, but have only been able to find them at one location in our town and have to order them on line.  I was resently diagnosed as pre diabetic and needed to lose weight. I showed these to my nutritionist who was very impressed and planned to recommend them to other patients as a snack. Warm from the microwave, they are so much better than the regular rinds."
,,,,,perfect pork rinds!,"we used to buy these at an area store and then suddenly they didn't carry them anymore.  THIS is the way to eat pork rinds...just the right amount and way better than a bag from the grocery store.  and even with the shipping and handling, the price is better.  enjoy!"
,,,,,great snack,Couldn't find these in the local stores anymore so I was glad to find them at Amazon  This is a great tasting low fat snack
,,,,,Pork Rinds,"I found these Pork Rinds several years ago and just love them. I didn't believe at first that they would really pop in the microwave but they do, just like pop corn. They are so great because you get to eat them warm instead of just out of the bag ! !"
,,,,,Micro pork rinds freshest you can buy.,"When I saw the price of the pork rinds plus free shipping, and since I had never tried the micro rinds before I decided I would give it a try. I ordered a box of the Spicy and one of the Original.<br />They were here in no time.<br />We have a 1000 watt micro and we experimented a couple of times and found that 92 seconds was perfect for us. If we have a few that do not puff up (which rarely happens) you can put the few on a paper plate and put them back in the micro and it takes just a few seconds for them to puff up.<br />Because I am not a spicy food lover I wasn't as crazy about the Spicy as the Original but my husband loved them. So that made it possible for each of us to have a box of our own. Wahoo, I didn't have to share with him. Worked out great.<br />I would liked to have had a little less salt on them but was able to knock some off just by tapping the rind on the plate as I ate them.<br /><br />I would give this an excellent rating, in fact I am going to order 2 more boxes after I finish this."
,,,,,Good for low carbs,"Enjoy this treat on my low carb diet. Nice to have a ""chip"" to dip"
,,,,,Best I could ever eat.,"These are great, but I find they need about 3.5 to 4 minutes to cook, and let stand 2 more minutes."
,,,,,excellent,excellent product....bag expands like popcorn..chowed a bag during avatar the the other night and fell like i was at the movies
,,,,,"Great if you love fresh, hot, hot and spicy porkrinds",These are absolutely wonderful and they are shipped every month to my home so I don't even have to buy them from the store. I also get them for less than half the price I would pay at the store. I love shopping online.
,,,,,The Original and the Spicy Microwave Pork Rinds are very good.,"The Lowery's Original and Hot & Spicy Pork Rinds are great.  I can take them with me on trips, pop them in the microwave and have a great late night snack and I do not have to be concerned about carbs.  I would highly recommend any one who like pork rinds to give them a try and be ready for a surprise when they come out of the microwave. The price from Amazon was very good and it was delivered in a couple of days.<br /><br />Steve Puente<br /><br />P.S. Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds, Hot & Spicy, 1.75-Ounce Packages (Pack of 18) - I purchased one of each."
,,,,,Pork Rhinds Origional Flavor,OK but too Salty.  they should make a low sodium version.  The spicy is better.
,,,,,You must try these.,These are no comparison to the packaged skins in the store.  One taste and you are hooked.
,,,,,Best Pork Rinds Ever!,I first purchased this product a few months ago after a co-worker mentioned them.  So I decided to try them out for myself. To my surprise they are very delicious.  I'm sold! and will continue to buy them. If you like hot fresh pork rinds and spicy ones.  This product is for you. Sincerely Summer
,,,,,Great diet snack also,Great taste no carbs (I am diabetic) and low cal also. Only drawback may be sodium content. When you need a cracker for a dip I use them. I just make the dip from fat free sour cream and onion soup mix. The dip has more cal than the pork rinds. I n short they are a cracker substitute for me.<br /><br />Most complaints are  improper  cooking  results. Hate to say this but it is your microwave not the product. There are microwave ovens that have a real bad hot spot and this burns them. I had an oven like this (older model)and the problem went away with  the new  microwave.<br /><br />But the biggest thing in their favor is the taste. Love both kinds.
,,,,,Lowrey's microwave pork rinds,I very much enjoy the microwave pork rinds. Scheduled deliveries make things simple and convenient.
,,,,,Crisp in an instant,"If you are a fan of cracklins"" you'll love these. Hot and fresh, the microwave does a remarkable job.  Not too salty and they have a true crackln taste."
,,,,,Very Disappointed,"Could not get the bags to ""pop"" any edible pork rinds.  I tried several bags with no results.  I finally had to throw them out.  I was very dissapointed with this product."
,,,,,lowry's pork rinds,We were very pleased with the product and have introduced family and friends to it and all have been very pleased and suprised so we will be continuing to order these. Great product.
,,,,,Worse  ever!,"I hated the flavor of this product, I ended up just giving it away at work who ended up giving it away to there friends."
,,,,,"Hard to find, but Amazon has 'em!","I love these things, but they're no longer sold in grocery stores.  (Believe me, I've searched.)  It was great to find them (and for a reasonable price) at Amazon.<br /><br />I know, I know... they're junk food.  However, compared to the pork rinds you'd buy in a bag, the microwave version is considerably lower in fat.  As far as flavors go, I prefer the ""Hot & Spicy""; it's a lot more interesting than ""Regular"".<br /><br />Suggestion:  Eat them while they're still warm, they're much better that way!"
,,,,,Love em,We love these pork rinds.  So easy to make and low fat too.  The seasoning has just enough heat to give a kick but not overwhelm you.  We used to buy them occasionally from a local store but haven't seen them in ages.  Thanks Amazon for carrying them.
,,,,,The Best Low Carb Snack,"This is the best low carb snack next to popcorn, they are both microwavable.  I like it best with a sprinkle of lemon juice."
,,,,,great snack for after those late nights drinking,"You need to make sure the pieces are evenly distributed throughout the bag before you microwave it. With my microwave I find 1:30 on high is the best, shake bag well when you first pull it out (for at least 10 seconds). This ensures the hot and spicy seasoning to be evenly coated. Then enjoy, I eat em with a beer."
,,,,,Amazing,Everyone who tried the pork rinds loved them and were amazed that you could cook them in the microwave.
,,,,,TERRIFIC FOOD FIND!!,"SO excited about this food find that i've already e-mailed 100+ friends and family about it!<br /><br />in the past i would buy a bag of chicharron when i craved a taste - and eat at most 1/4 of it .. then when i needed a bit to top a savory filipino dish (pancit palabok or monggo), i'd find the bag had gone stale so i'd toss the bag and buy a new one to begin another cycle of wastefulness.<br /><br />Lowrey's Microwave Pork Rinds to the rescue!! .. in 2 minutes or less, each bag produces crisp, not greasy, tasty chicharron - about 3? cups at a time, the perfect amount for me .. oh, and the expiration date on these bags is june 2011 so i'm set for at least a year, for $13 (in the past i've thrown out maybe one $3 bag per month?).<br /><br />my mr. science hubby is so amazed with this product he's taking a bag to work today to show his techie guys (one is south american and gives us those huge chicharrones fried in a vat of oil by his mother-in-law; the other is muslim and doesn't eat pork ;-)."
,,,,,The best pork rinds you will ever eat unless you own a BBQ restaurant..,Wow. It's amazing how so simple a snack can be so tasty. I wanted something crunchy that wasn't a carb. You might want to eat only bland veggies the rest of the day because it is high in fat and sodium. But a great guilty pleasure nonetheless.
,,,,,Tasty,"We originally found these at Wally World.  When we could no longer get there, I hit the internet.  Both are quite good . . . we prefer the spicy."
,,,,,Tastes like feet!,"I normally rate whatever items I buy but rarely offer words of advice. Well, these things changed my mind. I love pork rinds. Usually I buy a tub of them from Sam's, but since I'm the only one in the house who eats them, they go stale long before I can make a dent in them. So I saw these, and the positive reviews, and thought, ""Hey, that's the perfect solution!"". It's a perfect solution all right...a perfect solution to get me to stop eating pork rinds.<br /><br />I made the first bag, as per the directions. I had no problem with them crisping at all. They were perfect in that regard, nice and crunchy. But the taste is awful! I thought, perhaps, it was a bad bag. Nope. The second batch tasted just as terrible. I have no idea what they use to flavor them, but it tastes like a strange mixture of salt and soap. There's enough salt in them to kill a horse, which in and of itself wouldn't be so bad (I actually like salty things) but when combined with whatever garbage they dug out of their backed up shower and called seasoning, it left me hunting for listerine - or gasoline, whatever I could get my hands on - to get the taste out of my mouth. I'm still shuddering from it. If you like the taste of feet, go for it. If not, I'd suggest heading to Sam's to buy the wonderful tasting pork rinds we all know and love."
,,,,,Lowrey's Bacon Curls Pork Rinds,"Lowrey's Bacon Curls Pork Rinds: 1.75 ounce microwave bags are loaded with 350 milligrams of salt, Thats all I tasted, A pinch of salt would have been better."
,,,,,Fire Hazard,The bags catch fire in my microwave and that leaves most un-popped and extremely over-salted.  This product is inferior to other brands I have tried.
,,,,,Flavor MUCH too strong.,"Not one member of my family, including me, like these extremely salty, much too strong a BQ taste to order more.  I purchased them on a recuring basis and i wish to cancel now.  I have received only one shipment. Cancel further shipments.  Not to our taste at all. These are Lowery pork rinds."
,,,,,Not what I expected.,The taste was a little off to me and like with microwave popcorn not all of the bacon skins developed. Some were still very hard on the ends and others not developed at all. I bought a box of these so I tried to perfect the technique several times with not much better outcomes. All in all I will stick with the ready to go variety offered by Frito Lay and Mission.
,,,,,Lawrey's Microwave Pork rinds review,The Lowrey's Microwave Pork rinds that I received was unacceptable.  I ordered 36 bags and the bags only popped 1/4 of the bag.  All rinds popped but for the amount of the money that I paid for them I could have gone to the store and bought a $2.00 bag already popped and gotten a full bag.  I feel that it should have popped at least half of the bag.  I understand that everyone is counting their pennies but I also think that the consumer should get something for their money.  I really enjoy this product but I probably will not order any more for this reason.
,,,,,Wrong Product,"'On July 26, 2012 I ordered Lowrey's Hot and Spicy Pork Rinds. I received the Orginal Pork Rinds. I am not happy with this product. I will keep them as they will be to expensive to send them back. I feel you should have checked my previous orders I had ordered, or at least contacted me about my order. Thank you, Colleen Avey"
,,,,,Tasted Like Ammonia!,"So I made one bag of these pork rinds & it came out good! I decided to try another & the taste was unbelievable - it had an ammoniated taste & smell to it! I thought that maybe it was a bad bag. I stayed away for a few weeks & decided to give them another try. BAD IDEA! They tasted like ammonia again! This wasn't caused by incorrect cooking time because they all came out looking puffy, and crispy. I ended up throwing the box out."
,,,,,NOT EDIBLE - MSG - EXCESSIVE SALT,"A warning should be placed on the item description because this product contains Monosodium Glutamate (MSG), a dangerous excitotoxin which is problematic for many people. There is no indication in the item description that this is the case. I fully agree with another reviewer that this item also is so extremely salty that it cannot be consumed. The MSG also heightens the very salty taste. This item did puff up very nicely in the microwave, but it was inedible because of the saltiness and all 18 packages had to be thrown out. For that reason, I am surprised at the many excellent reviews of this product. Amazon.com gets an A+++ for their wonderful handling of this problem."
,,,,,Don't waste your money !!!!!,"Horrible ""hemical"" taste.Extremely salty !!!!!!<br /><br />This was a complete waste of money,after the first bag I will have to throw the whole box away !!!!!!!!"
,,,,,horrid,"I tried to ""cook"" 6 different bags of these.  Only a fraction of product ""popped up"".  The ones that managed to pop tasted overly salty and had an unusual flavor.  Unfortunately, they were not returnable, so the rest will be going to the trash.  Waste of $$$."
,,,,,"High MSG content, but otherwise a great low carb/fat snack","I was surprised at how well the rinds ""popped,"" and didn't have any difficulties as other reviewers did.  I made sure that I unfolded the package (it's folded into three just like a microwave popcorn pack), unbent the folds so that the product could move between the three areas, then I shook it vigorously several times, trying to distribute the contents somewhat evenly throughout the bag.  Two minutes in my microwave (1100 Watts, but 10 years old) is perfect, and virtually all rinds pop every time.<br /><br />This is a low fat product, so it isn't nearly as tasty as the supermarket pork rinds you may have tried.  One could easily eat an entire package, although there are three servings per bag, but you will pay the consequences in terms of salt intake and MSG overload.  The MSG triggered a migraine for me, so now I don't eat it frequently, and make sure I only consume half a bag at most.  When I get near the bottom of the bag, where the most salt and MSG ends up, I try to brush off as much as I can.<br /><br />Still, a good snack option for those with blood sugar sensitivities.  Zero carbs is always good! The only reason for my 4 star review is that the amount of MSG per bag seems to be pretty high, and that's not disclosed on the product's Amazon page."
,,,,,VERY DISAPPOINTING!  Will NEVER order again,"I ordered this product - Lowry's Pork Rind - and received it promptly - within two days.  I have not been able to pop one bag!  They all stay flat - nothing works.  My microwave is not the problem as I cook lots of other things in it.  Looks to me that the product is not longer any good, by the comments.  They may have started out great, but it NO LONGER IS WORTH BUYING!"
,,,,,don't understand,This is my first time and I can't eat them they are all small hard peaces with only a frw puffie ones. Is there something wrong with my batch? I can't eat them or they would break my teeth am I doing something wrong I only cook them 1 min.
,,,,,"Love these, but they don't love me","I bought these on another online site and the Amazon ones are almost $3 cheaper. I love these. In fact, I've grown quite addicted. Unfortunatley, they have tons of sodium and also contain MSG, which is causing me to gain a lb or two of water weight and stalls my weight loss progress very effectively. If I were only trying to maintain, these wouldn't be a problem.<br /><br />I won't buy them again, for these reasons."
,,,,,Lowreys pork rinds,This product is fantastic.  Instead of popcorn we eat pork rinds.  They have no carbs which have helped us to keep our weight down.  We feel we have made a better choice.  We eat them practically every night.  Thanks for a great product.
,,,,,Shockingly good,"I bought these last month as part of an Amazon promotion - buy 5 items get %40 percent off.  I had never heard of this product, but have a soft spot in my belly for the snacks I grew up on as a kid.  These things turned out way better than expected.  They are essentially pork rinds from your typical supermarket, but they are fresh - still crackling and popping after you open the bag.  I'm addicted to these now and have had to ratio them out so I don't eat them every night.  They're THAT good."
,,,,,Bacon Curls,"These are wonderful, we found them on vacation.  I like the fact that you only use a small bag, no waste.<br /><br />Will be ordering again soon.<br /><br />Jeannie"
,,,,,"great product, bad design","The product itself is great, it's the bag that needs work.  I recommend that instead of microwaving them in the bag, spread them out on a paper plate or a microwave safe plate then popping them in the microwave for about 90 seconds.  You do have to watch these cook though or they will burn on you. I really like the pork rinds themselves and they are a healthy alternative to chips though they are a little salty."
,,,,,Totally Awesome snack - low fat/high protein.  Yum Yum,"I bought one (to try) based on the reviews for the 18-pack for $15.19.  They popped perfectly, tasted delicious (crunchy, not too hard, not too spicy, not too salty) and are a really healthy snack.<br /><br />ZERO GRAMS saturated fat.  Total protein per bag:  31.5 grams.  Total calories per bag:  210<br /><br />Within minutes of tasting them, I ordered an 18-pack.  These things fall into the ""Totally Awesome"" pile, for sure.<br /><br />If you like pork rinds and eating low-fat, high-protein snacks, this item might work out well for you."
,,,,,"Excellent --- Low fat, high flavor","For pork rind lovers these are the best.  Hot, spicy, low fat and crunchy."
,,,,,I LIKE 'em,"I like them a lot. Got a batch after seeing it on a TV show. The first bag seemed a little 'off' to me, but then I realized it was bacause they were not fried. After that I like them a lot. I think they could be 'hotter'. I found that you want to start at the low end of the cooking time and work up. For me about 3 bags was enough to figure out that 1:08 was the 'perfect' time for my microwave. Long enough that they all 'pop' but not so long that anything happens to the early 'poppers'.<br /><br />My daughter loves them also, and we are going through them at a pretty good clip. I'm going to put them on auto reorder when this batch is gone. They are perfect for evening snacking when the mood hits. Since you make them as you eat them, never a stale bag! And the size is just about perfect for that.<br /><br />That's my 2 cents worth :)"
,,,,,These are Great!,"The more powerful your microwave the better they turn out. 90 seconds in ours and they are large (up to 3 inches) and fluffy mixed with a few crunchies. Our microwave at work is lame. They burn or don't pop completely.  I think I'm hooked!  I subscribe to them-I always like having them around for when ""I want something but I don't know what"". Oh, and with a few drops of Franks X-tra hot!!!!"
,,,,,Great Low Carb Snack,3.5 Carbs and 210 calories in an entire bag.<br />Have a slightly different texture than regular rinds but still great.<br />If your watching sodium these may be a little high for you. over 1000mg sodium in the bag.
,,,,,Bigbert,To anyone who likes pork rinds this is for you!!! but you got to have a strong microwave so they turn out lite and fluffy and they taste fantastic!!!!
,,,,,Contains MSG,These pork rinds contain MSG which is not stated on the listing.  Deceptive listing for this product.  Will not purchase again.  Shame on Amazon for wasting my money.
,,,,,ms,They were very salty and seasoned with a seasoning that my family and myself did not like.  I shared with co-workers and they did not like them either.  We still have the balance and hate to pitch them but if we can not find someone who likes them that we can give them to we will.  I think they were awful
,,,,,they stink,I was so excited when I heard about this product. I love pork rinds. But these have a nasty chemical smell and they really don't taste good at all. Don't waste your money. I actually threw the remaining 17 packages away. They REALLY SUCK!!!!
,,,,,UNDER PAR,"THE PRODUCT, BEING NEW, IS FAIR, BUT HAVE NOT HAD TOO MUCH LUCK GETTING IT TO EXPAND MUCH....HAVE TOOOOOOO MANY FLAT HARD PIECES....FLAVOR IS OKAY, BUT HAS A GREASY TASTE TO START, LIKE IT'S BEEN SITTING IN BACON GREASE..I HAVE TRUST THAT IN TIME THE PRODUCT WILL IMPROVE AS ALL NEW PRODUCTS DO, ....I THINK IT IS A GOOD CONCEPT AND HOPE IT DOES GET BETTER"
,,,,,Convenient but disappointing,"These taste just like any other packaged pork rind product I've tried. I was hoping these would be fresher, closer to the real thing I buy in Mexican markets. Oh well, for a quick snack when you don't feel like leaving the house, it's fine."
,,,,,You have to be really desperate,"After reading all the positive reviews, I was really looking forward to finally getting a very low carb (somewhat low calorie) snack that I can work into my low carb living.  I've had pork rinds from the stores and thought they were pretty good, so I expected this to be at or better than my local convenience store brand.  Wrong.  I was first disappointed with the texture.  After following the instructions to microwave from 1-2 minutes, some (about 1/4) were crispy, but the rest were almost like taffy and would stick to the teeth?  Perhaps I didn't cook long enough, so 2nd bag stayed in longer which made a few more crispy, but more burnt and chewy ones.  But texture is only 1/2 the problem, the biggest issue was that the product taste like the bag. The taste of the microwave bag seems to bake into the product giving them a paper bag taste.  Finally,those without the full paper bag taste didn't really have a lot of flavor.  They were salty (which is to be expected),but that's really all the flavor you get.  So if your desperate and too lazy to get out a store (or can't find any in a near by store), this may work for you.  It  works out to about $1.00 a bag, so I'm not totally disappointed as my dog loves them.  By the way, my dog gives them 5 stars."
,,,,,"Don't waste your money.  I used to by Oh Boy Oberto pork rinds several years ago, and they were very good.","These pork rinds by Lowery's suck.<br /><br />I have tried to leave a review, but it appears that Amazon.com has their heads as far up their a**es as Lowery's.  I don't expect to see this posted."
,,,,,Terrible!!,This is a great idea but just like baking a cake...you can't do it in a midrowave.
,,,,,They taste soooo bad!!!!  Gross!!!,"I got these for my dad from his wish list.  He thought they would be spicy and flavorful but they just tasted like cumin and had a funky smell.  The box came with 18 individual bags but after you open one bag, it's impossible to even want to put yourself through that again.  They are nasty!!!  Avoid them at all cost!!  Yuck!!"
,,,,,Lowrey's Bacon Curls Pork Rinds,"Lowrey's Bacon Curls Pork Rinds: 1.75 ounce microwave bags are loaded with 350 milligrams of salt, Thats all I tasted, A pinch would have been better, or no salt at all."
,,,,,"To salty, dident microwave right.","I am a lover of pork rinds so i was really looking forward to eating fresh ones, neathers to say they dident cook in 5 mins like it says it would and if you put it in that long most would burn to a crisp by that time, another thing that really dident appel to me is that the taste is like they poured tones of salt on them before they packaged them.... i wanted to eat pork rinds NOT salt, if i wanted to salt i would just get it from the salt in my seasons cabnet...very disappointed..."
,,,,,Not For Me,"In all fairness my friend absolutely loves this product.  I purchased it based upon his suggestion.  Unfortunately, the smell (oil I am assuming) of it cooking made me feel ill.  Even though the product cooked perfectly, the smell lingered in my microwave for well over a day."
,,,,,What about health?,"I considered buying these but the health risks should be considered.<br /><br />These are cured, stored with salt, and have nitrates.<br /><br />If you look on the american cancer society web site you will see that those are cancer causing concerns.<br /><br />you can still eat well when avoiding such things."
,,,,,I DID NOT ORDER HOT,"I recieved my bacon crisps. The price is OK, but I did not order hot & don't know how to change my subscription."
,,,,,Amazing,These are amazing for the low-carber.  I can't believe they're not available any more.
,,,,,Wonderful fresh,"These Lowrey's Bacon Curls are wonderful.  They are so fresh, great tasting.  Have found however that cooking them in the bag doesn't work very well, so we spread them out in a single layer and heat for 5:30 minutes in a 1000 watt microwave.  Will be ordering them again."
,,,,,Lowrey's Bacon Curls,"Love these was unable to find them in local stores, so I ordered them. Thanks great low carb snack."
,,,,,Microwavable Bliss!!,"These things are great! If you like pork rinds, try these out. Stick them in the microwave for 1:40 and enjoy."
,,,,,These are Great!!!!,These are as good or better than the Deep Fried ones you get at Theme Parks across the country!!!
,,,,,wonderful snack item,Microwave pork rinds make a great and easy snack for diabetics. They are extremely low carb and hi protein and also low fat for those who are dieting.
,,,,,Quick and easy,"When you need a quick snack, try these.  In about 90 seconds it is ready. Hot and tasty.  Just what you need for watching a movie on TV.  You can make them and still catch most of the commerical."
,,,,,OK Product But..,"I have popped several of these bags in the past week, And every single one of them does not pop up as much as they used to. They used to pop up like a bag of popcorn does, These bags stay very flat in the microwave oven, And when you take the bag out you have to be very quick about opening it, Or it implodes and sticks together!<br /><br />I used to purchase these Microwave Pork Rinds direct from the company, And had never had a problem until now.<br /><br />So it's up to you to decide if you want to buy these or not, They are very tasty and very healthy for you too!"
,,,,,Lowrey's Microwave Pork Rhinds,"These are a wonderful snack, better than popcorn, and they are not so hard on the teeth like other pork rhinds."
,,,,,WARNING! CONTAINS MSG and MALTODEXTRIN,"Being a gluten sensitive individual, I was lured into a false sense of security when I read the simple ingredients on this Amazon info page.<br /><br />Because I didn't first do my homework, and read the labels before I began consuming these, I ended up having a massive asthma attack.  Just wanted to let everyone who has these sensitivities/allergies to avoid this product."
,,,,,i REALLY didnt want to like these,"my husband loves pork rinds, i however was freaked even thinking about ""deep friend pork skin"" but i am always willing to try new things so over the years i have choked down countless brands of pork rinds to appease my husband.<br /><br />one day i was at work (at a hotel) and i notice over on the snacks for sale shelf microwaveable pork rinds. i was like WTF you gotta be kidding me, so being the good wife i am i buy them (more as a joke than anything else) for my husband well he zapped them bad boys and started happily munching away, oohing and ahhhing over how good they were, so i tried one (i refused to tell him that it was pretty good)..over time i bought him more, even ordering them thru the hotel (ya employee discount!!) and he noticed that i would ever so casually walk by and snatch one from his bag. finally i gave up and just made myself a bag. i am now hopelessly addicted however no longer work for the hotel so i needed a new supplier....lol<br /><br />our microwave has a popcorn button, on a whim i gave it a shot figuring it would be a microwave disaster, much to my surprise i got PERFECT bags of porky crunchy goodness EVERY TIME, and when i say perfect i mean not one single under done or burn piece. for the life of me i cant figure out HOW the microwave can use the same button to make popcorn and the pork rinds so perfectly. but i chalk it up to magic<br /><br />be forewarned if you have dogs.....these are doggy crack, (yes i know...don't give the dogs people food...yadda yadda) i am convinced if you waved one of these little buggers in front of your dog and told him to speak, he wouldn't bark, he would recite Shakespeare. i have never seen my dogs go that crazy over ANYTHING else"
,,,,,If Popcorn and Bacon Had a Baby,"My day had been nothing exceptional.  I had forgotten to take lunch and the afternoon was dragging.  Upon returning to my desk I saw a bag of these on my desk that had been here for a few days; a gift from a friend.  I decided to take them to the microwave and give them a try.  I fully expected to ""pop"" them and open the door to the worst smell I could fathom.  Imagine my surprise when the bell dinged and I opened the door to the delicious smell of still sizzling savoriness that is Lowrey's How n Spicy Bacon Curls.  It was like cherubim descended from heaven and placed God's favorite snack in my mouth.  I was bathed in a pillar of light and from nowhere the volume rose to a crescendo of Beethoven's 9th Symphony.  At that moment I realized that my life had been building to this moment ... this one perfect instant in time.  I felt as if my tongue was nodding in approval and I shed a single tear of joy.  If I have another son I will name him Lowrey."
,,,,,Love These!,"We really love this product.  Many times we have bought pork rinds from the store and have had to toss them out because they were no longer fresh.  But Lowrey's Microwave Pork Rinds are made fresh each time you microwave a bag. It's amazing how much the 1.75 ounce bag makes - more than enough to share.  If I have a complaint, it's that they are a bit salty.  My husband & I have remedied that by adding them to our popcorn (we pop on the stove), then the salt is dispersed into the popcorn. <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000K3LQ1E"">Lowrey's Bacon Curls, Microwave Pork Rinds (18 Bags, Original 1 case</a>"
,,,,,Great Taste Small Price,"A delicious product, can't seem to find it in the stores these days. I recommend to try if you like pork rinds.<br />Quick Delivery and great to have for guests."
,,,,,You will never go back to prepackaged pork rinds,"Wish they were stocked in stores but glad to be able to find them online. Not only food for white trash, they are low carb and make the perfect snack food. The aroma from the microwave during the cooking process is heavenly. Be sure to shake the bag per package direction. A must for the pork rind addict. After you try these, you will never go back to prepackaged rinds."
,,,,,DELICIOUS FOR THOSE TASTE BUDS,IF YOUR A PORK RIND LOVER THIS IS AN AWESOME PRODUCT FOR THOSE WONDERFUL TASTE BUDS. THEY MELT IN YOUR MOUTH BEFORE THEY GO DOWN. MMM MMM GOOD.
,,,,,pork rinds,This is a great product. You do have to play around with the cooking time for your microwave or you can easily overcook. The product was delivered quickly and in great condition.
,,,,,delicious and easy to make,"I'm currently deployed and I'm on a low carb and high protein diet.  But my current location doesn't allow me to go out into town easily to get the type of foods that would keep me on my diet. So i ordered this from amazon.<br /><br />Pros<br />fast shipping!<br />taste great<br />Zero carbs<br /><br />cons<br />does make the room smell once you open the package<br />so be mindful of anybody else who might complain. just open it outside, through a window, or stand under a ventilation fan.<br /><br />I've read reviews of people have trouble cooking it. here's my method.<br /><br />-the instructions says cook for 2 minutes, but i set it to 3 minutes.<br />-after 45 seconds I open the door flip the package and shake it to spread the pieces out again<br />-after another 45 seconds i flip the package one more time and help the bag expand by just shaking the pieces around.<br />-then I'll let cook for about a total time of 2:10-2:20 then stop and open the bag and place the rinds in a bowl or container.<br /><br />I'll then look through to see if any have not expanded yet. I'll just throw them in the microwave without the bag on a plate or napkin and just let them cook for a minute.<br /><br />there, you are done!<br /><br />i like to dip them in hot sauce. ENJOY!"
,,,,,Delicious,"These pork rinds are delicious, but learning how to cook them in your microwave takes some practice. My first 2 bags were wasted, but I finally just dumped the bag on a paper plate and microwaved it and they turned out GREAT.  The bag has NOTHING to do with the cooking, so I actually just emptied all of my bags into one big ziplock bag so I can put how many I want on a plate and only cook a few at a time (cooks better that way)<br /><br />All that said, when these babies puff, they are delicious."
,,,,,Wonderful pork rinds. Microwave with care!,"I first tried Lowrey's Bacon Curls when they were offered at a local club store. Since then, the only way to find them had been to order them streight from the manufacturer, until now. I'd had mixed results with the microwave process. I'd had many bags just burn without popping. Recently...just for fun, I thought I'd see what would happen if I tried lower wattage. It worked!! Now I use my 900 watt microwave vs the 1100 watt microvave I'd initially used."
,,,,,What happened?,"This is my fourth order of these pork rinds and I'm not sure what's up, but something's really amiss.  The bags are leaking some kind of grease and don't fluff up during the microwave process.  I used to love these, so hopefully this is just a bad batch.  If not, then Lowrey's needs to look into this and fix whatever has happened to a once great snack."
,,,,,"So tasty, but has MSG.","It cooks in microwave so fast, and it's really good right after you cook, but unfortunately it has MSG in it. Nonetheless, the fat and sodium content on this is not too bad when compared to regular pork rinds. I uploaded a photo of the nutrition facts so you can see the ingredients too."
,,,,,BAD BATCH,"This was my second purchase of this product. The first purchase was great, but this 2nd must have been a defective batch. Most packs did not cook correctly because they were not sealed tight and opened during cooking. That caused them to burn or not cook completely. I did not send them back because I kept thinking, maybe the next one will be better, but I was wrong. There are a few packs left, but I'm hesitant about microwaving them. I will probably purchase some again, but it will not be anytime soon."
,,,,,Bacon Curls..very good,I can't find these in the local store so I order them.  They have much better flavor than the already prepared kind.  Microwave like popcorn.  Low carb.  Be sure to shake the package like it says.
,,,,,Lawry's hot & spicy bacon curls (pork rinds),I love these both kinds once you try them you won't be able to eat the prepackaged ones ever again. They are crispy spicy and fresh
,,,,,microwave bacon curls are great,I've been eating these (regular and spicy) for several years.  They are definitely superior to the non-microwave kind.  Shake the bag as directed to make sure they are not stacked on each other and I put them on the popcorn setting in my microwave.  Soooo good.
,,,,,Tasty,"We originally found these at Wally World.  When we could no longer get there, I hit the internet.  Both are quite good . . . we prefer the spicy."
,,,,,Microwave pork rinds,I'm so glad these are finally available again.  My boyfriend loves these!!  I try to buy them every month for him.
,,,,,Great Product!,"the next best thing to fresh!<br /><br />if youve never had fresh pork rinds, this is something youve got to try!"
,,,,,Lowrey's Bacon Curls--Microwave,"I love these things.  I used to be able to get them at Wal Mart and a couple local grocery stores.  Now I have a hard time finding them--but they are available through Amazon.  I like all kinds of Pork Rinds--but most of the ones you buy in the store--already made--have a high fat content.  People on a low carb diet can eat any kind--but if you are watching your fat intake, these are an excellent alternative.  I always include them in my diet--they are not the most filling snack--however, a bag usually satisfies your craving for a salty snack.  I buy boxes of them at a time from Amazon so I never run out."
,,,,,They are Delicious,These pork rinds are the bomb!  They're excellent coming out of the microwave.  Yum!
,,,,,texture!,I like the texture to these pork rinds more than any others.  There's something special about have these hot and fresh cooked.  Try dipping them in nacho cheese with jalapeno slices.
,,,,,I eat these too much,"I'm kind of addicted to these.  I like both the Hot and Spicy and the Plain Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds, but like the Hot and Spicy best.  I found the perfect time in my microwave of 1:20, but had to experiment to find the right amount of time.  Before taking them out of the plastic I shake them a little.  Once in a while they will fly out of the bag when I try to shake it when the bag is out of the plastic and opened flat like the directions show.  You really need to get them dispersed in the bag before popping if you want full big puffy pork rinds, which I think needs to be done more than 5-6 times like the directions state.  Some bags do seem fuller than others, however.  I have to agree these do stink when taken out of the microwave.  I turn my stove fan on before taking them out of the microwave and pour them out of the bag under the fan and hold the bag and bowl up to the fan for a few seconds.<br />I've tried dipping these into ranch dressing which is a bit of a treat too, but seems to make the porky too soggy, but I like the taste of it."
,,,,,great choice for husbands!,my husband loves these! right now we are currently stationed overseas and it just brings back a little of home to him. amazon has been the only place that i can find that sell these.
,,,,,Excellent pork rinds,The Ortega microwave port rinds pop up like popcorn and they taste fresh and has excellent flavor.  The shipment arrived in great shape and was shipped promptly.
,,,,,Great Snack,"This is a very tasty snack although a little too salty, otherwise I love them."
,,,,,Microwave pork rinds are FANTASTIC!,"If you enjoy pork rinds like I do, you can't miss this product.  A minute and a half in the microwave, and you've got warm, crunchy deliciousness.  There's just the right amount of spice, too.  This is a great product."
,,,,,Yummmmm!,"Just got these and tried them over the weekend.  They were easy to cook and taste great.  My husband saw that I had them and tried them as well, so now I'm glad they come 15 to a box.  These will be a staple on our snack shelf.  There is a big differance between store bought and these.  These are sooo much fresher (and tastier).  They also fit very well into my high protein/low-carb diet.  It's wonderful to snack on something with a crunch to it!"
,,,,,my nightly snack,NO CARBS  This is my favorite snack -  very light and crunchy.  Not as dry as the packaged pork rinds.  I love these -  Been getting these for 6 years and still order them every 2-3 months.
,,,,,great snack,"I love these things, warm pork rinds that tast fresh and the size of the bag is just the right size"
,,,,,Lowrey's microwave pork rinds,"Wal-mart used to carry these Lowrey's microwave pork rinds in a 4 pack, but as everybody knows just because it on wal-marts shelf today does not mean it will be there tomorrow. Well they discontinued carring them and I was BUMMED OUT beyond belief. I LOVE THESE THINGS. I done a search on line and found then on amazon.com and you can't imagine how happy I was. I bought 2 cases of them. My whole family is addicted to them. Did i mention I LOVE THESE THINGS. They go into my microwave for 1 minute and 20 seconds and you have hot fresh pork rinds. They are so much better than the pork rinds in the bag on the potato chip isle. 2 Thumbs Up"
,,,,,Pork rinds,"A friend of mine sent me some of theese, and I thought it sounded kinda gross. But found they were quite good for a snack, but the only place I've found them on the west coast is online"
,,,,,warm and crispy,"If you like pork rinds you're going to love these. They come out of the microwave so warm, light and crispy. Great snack if you're on low carbs."
,,,,,Best Chicaronnes,"Lowrey's chicaronnes are probably the best pork rinds available in the USA, always fresh after proper time in the micro-wave."
,,,,,Not Too Bad,I wouldn't have these every day but I found them to have plenty of flavour and kind of fun to cook.
,,,,,Happy to find this product,"After buying these for quite sometime, I was quite disappointed when Walmart didn't carry them any more. They are not the same brand, but still pretty good. I wish there was more in the bag. You don't get a whole lot in each bag. I am glad to have them though. I bought 2 cases, and when I run out will probably get more."
,,,,,Microwave pork rinds,"At first, I thought the product was a joke, but not so, delicious and fresh!!! Try them."
,,,,,Lowery's Microwave Pork Rinds,"I tried both the Original and the Hot and Spicy, both are marvelous.  Only problem I have is that both are a little on the Salty side.  2 Minutes in the Microwave and you have cracklin pork rinds.  I can no longer find any in my local super market, this is a wonderful substitution."
,,,,,Big Smiles!,I take various snacks into work and get repaid by the honor system.  I thought I'd try these because they are something different from the usual chips & cookies.  They were a huge hit.  Ten packages were gone the first day and everybody was walking around with a smile on their face spreading the word. I will definitely be ordering more!
,,,,,a tasty snack,"I found microwave pork rinds quite by accident. But ever since, they are something I have wanted. Now I found them on Amazon, and I couldn't be happier.<br /> It's a quick, easily prepared snack, and as other reviewers have pointed out, not bad for your diet.<br /> Once they come put of the microwave, open the bag, pour them out, and marvel as you hear them still popping and crackling in the bowl. I may never go back to bagged pork rinds ever again"
,,,,,VERY GOOD!!,"i can no longer find these in our local stores.my whole family loves these.my kids love to hear them ""pop"".the taste is very good.we prefer these over popcorn.very happy to find these.I will buy more!!"
,,,,,Does not heat up well,"I heated these up in the microwave, and they do not microwave evenly. some will be burnt and hard as a rock when others will be just right. since you dont get very many in one bag, and since about 1/3 dont cook right, you barely get any pork rinds and throw the rest away. Maybe I am not cooking them right, but i followed the directions..."
,,,,,"OK, but pork rinds shouldn't be gummy.","Not thrilled with this one - threw most of it away.  For some reason, the result ended up being ""gummy"" which isn't something I expected from this type of product."
,,,,,AAAARRRRRGGGGHHHHH!!!!!,"first, the good news:  YES, these are really good.<br />the bad news: They are loaded with monosodium glutamate<br />Of course, this wasn't listed on Amazon as one of<br />the ingredients.<br />This is a good item if you're not sensitive to<br />MSG--<br />Now I have to go to the 7-11 and buy the fried pork<br />rinds to feed my addiction."
,,,,,Awful smell.,Someone at work cooked these and the smell is now making everyone sick. Smells kinda like puke. Hopefully the smell does not last overnight. Not recommended.
,,,,,Unbearably salty,"For starters, I'm not salt or msg averse. I enjoy salty food like chips, jerky, and bacon. However, these pork rinds are ridiculously salty tasting. To give you a better idea of what I'm referring to, Kettle Chips Sea Salt variety have 55 mg of salt per 1/2 oz of chips. Lowrey's pork rinds have 310 mg of sodium per 1/2 oz serving. That's roughly six times the salt content of a food considered relatively salty by most people. I read a review on here saying that they were too salty and decided to order them anyway thinking the reviewer was some salt hating baby. Boy, was I mistaken. I wish I hadn't ordered these."
,,,,,Poor Quality,Terrible. Half of the rinds don't cook and the ones that do are gummy and shrink. Contacted Lowrey's about the defective product but they failed to respond.
,,,,,Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds,"I had trouble finding just the right amount of time to microwave Lowrey's Bacon Curls Microwave Pork Rinds and now that I have they're okay, but I doubt I will buy them again...I ruined quite a few in the process."
,,,,,Never again...,"Wow, I had high hopes for a great addition to my low carb diet, but these rinds were very disappointing.  Tried several bags, but could not get the cooking time right.  Taste was dreadful, texture downright rocky.  I guess I'll stick to off the shelf rinds.  Won't be getting these again.  Can't recommend, and would warn of anyone asking for my opinion."
,,,,,Help!,"I am having probs with the cooking. They come out all fluffy and in 20 seconds suck back into themselves and get all hard. I've tried less time, more time and cooking them out of the bag on a paper towel... Dunno what I am doing wrong, and the company doesn't have any contact info. As for the taste..they're Alright..Waay salty and I'm a salt-a-holic!<br /><br />I wouldn't buy again :("
,,,,,MSG Alert,"I saw these on the Food Network Channel, and they made it sound so delicious on TV. I only wanted to buy one or two packets to try, but Amazon only sells them in a big box.  They're light and crispy if they're popped correctly, a little on the salty side because of the MSG seasoning (beware migraine sufferers). Not all of the bacon chips pop, and you can't eat the ones that don't because it's like plastic before they're nuked in the micro.  Now, I am stuck with the rest of the box."
,,,,,Disappointing,I expected better. Flavor is o.k. But half of the rinds do not puff up no matter what the timing in the microwave.
,,,,,TRICKY TO NUKE....but great for low carb diets!,"THESE ARE VERY TASTY FOR A QUICK SNACK, BUT THEY ARE A LITTLE TRICKY TO MICROWAVE. EACH MICROWAVE OVEN COOKS DIFFERENTLY (SIZE AND POWER WATTAGE) IT TAKES A FEW PACKS TO COOK JUST RIGHT. VERY EASY TO OVERCOOK OR UNDER COOK AND THIS EFFECTS THE TASTE GREATLY. AFTER YOU LEARN THE EXACT SECONDS FOR YOUR MICROWAVE THE BETTER THE TASTE. IF YOU OVERCOOK THEM THEY HAVE A CHEMICAL LIKE TASTE...YOU MIGHT AS WELL THROW THEM AWAY! (IF NOT COOKED JUST RIGHT)... I LIKE TO WATCH THE BAG COOK FOR BETTER RESULTS. I TAKE THE BAG OUT AT THE POINT OF INFLATION, NO LATER OR THEY WILL BE OVER COOKED. AT FIRST I THOUGHT IT WOULD BE LIKE NUKING POPCORN, BUT IT IS MORE DIFFICULT.<br /><br />+++UPDATE 1-04-10....WE GO THROUGH ABOUT 2-3 BOXES PER MONTH BECAUSE WE ARE ON A LOW CARB DIET."
,,,,,Snow's Corn Chowder,"I have been looking for a site to order Snow's Corn Chowder.  Formerly a New Englander and now living in Florida, I cannot find my favorite chowder anywhere.  My whole family loves Snow's Corn Chowder and I promise to share with them if I can order a case.  Would some one please look around and see if you can find one.  The Florida Fredericks would be most appreciative."
,,,,,Valentine sweet,MY wife is definitely not a chocohalic and is not fond of most sweets. In fact Werther's is the only candy she really likes. So instead of chocolates or flowers I bought this monster box of Werther's for Valentines day. It was a big hit.
,,,,,Werthers Orginalai,Werthers is the best candy I ever tasted. I have become addicted to it. It is the only candy I eat!!!
,,,,,My Favorite,"My candy order came quickly, packed well in a cardboard box - all 12 bags of the 10 ounce size!  I was pleased that the candy had not gotten soft or sticky in transit, as sometimes an order for the 34 ounce bag will do.  The last bag of the 12 has just been opened. . . so, as I was ordering another case, I took a minute to write a quick note."
,,,,,Yummy!,"Yummy,<br />This is a candy I have enjoyed since I was a child. It reminds me of sitting on the front porch in the swing with my grandmother. When I pop one of these little pieces of heaven into my mouth it brings back great memories of the days gone by."
,,,,,Great Coffee,We appreciate the availability of this coffee from you.  I order and it arrives quickly. I'm getting ready to place another order now! My Dept loves it!
,,,,,Best chili powder I ever tried!,"I had a recipe that called for a lot of dark chili powder and the only place I could find it was amazon.com.  I bought a jar of this and it made two batches of the chili recipe I have.  The chili was the best I'd ever made.  I can vouch that this chili powder really does make a big difference in the flavor of a chili.  It is rich with a bit of a kick.  Everyone has been crazy for it, and I think its due to this chili powder. I'm back to buy the bag this time!"
,,,,,Good chili,"This chili is filling and mildly spicy. Cooks well, however it makes exploding noises in my microwave."
,,,,,Good for workers w/ ten minute lunch breaks,"Keep box of saltines nearby and nuke this stuff and it's about the best lunch out of a microwave that I have ever had in my 45 years of working.<br />Nice and thick, no weird burnt spices, mystery meat, but they all have that.<br />I will buy this again."
,,,,,Edible but not great,"One of the disappointments with Campbell's Chunky Chili is that the ""meat"" is chewy and doesn't really taste like meat. Overall, the chili is acceptable as a quick lunch alternative but don't expect anything resembling homemade chili."
,,,,,"I have to also agree,3 star chili","Campbell's makes some great soups,but their chili on the other hand,leaves alot to be desired,it's tastes okay,just not up to snuff,I prefer Hormel(w/ or w/out beans) or even better HOMEADE!!!(and I make a mean chili,no compalints yet!!!)"
,,,,,"Tastes good, at least","For a microwavable chili, this stuff, and the firehouse variant, do taste good. However, I never get to eat the full container because it tends to explode in the microwave. I've followed the directions exactly on the label, as well as tried some tweaking, and nothing so far has prevented it from exploding.<br /><br />The problem is the plastic lid that is to be left on. It is left on because it is vented but covers the chili to keep it from splattering. Irony is there is not enough venting, the chili plugs the holes, and as it boils and water vapor expands, it basically becomes a messy bomb in your microwave.<br /><br />I wish I could say it was user error and that there is a way to enjoy this without the mess. So far the firehouse variant hasn't exploded on me, but it also has less meat and beans to it. Since the firehouse variant is not really all that spicy, I may just stick with that until Campbells can make this not a bomb."
,,,,,My favorite shelf-stable microwave lunch,"I eat a variety of shelf-stable microwavable lunches.  This is the best of the bunch, to me.  It has good flavor and is well seasoned without being overly spicy.  It has 6 grams of fiber and tastes good at the same time.  I prefer to eat it with saltines and shredded cheddar, but have eaten it with only the saltines and enjoyed it.<br /><br />I usually prefer chili without beans, with Hormel prefered and Wolf brand as an alternate, but I really like this chili ""soup"" with beans.<br /><br />For thos who have trouble with the chili popping and banging, turn the power level of the microwave down."
,,,,,Barely edible,"I think this chunky chili is the worst store-bought chili.  The meat has the texture of artificial soybean meat and is chewy, the<br />sauce is too sweet and cloy.  This has no character.<br /><br />I prefer Hormel or Dennisons to this.  By far."
,,,,,"Good, quick meal","I had never tried these before and wanted something different. These turned out to be really good, I even made some Chili cheese fries that were really good. Will definitely buy again."
,,,,,5 stars on taste,5 stars on taste. Beef tastes like it was grilled before it was added to the chili. The only thing that concerns me is the 11 grams of sugar. That can't be good for you.
,,,,,Best chili,"Campbell's Roadhouse.  Best microwavable chili on the market.  Used to be able to get it in local grocery stores, but haven't seen any there for a long time now.  Don't know why.  Glad to find it available on-line.  Just the right amount of spices.  Lively flavor without trying to burn out your taste buds.  Only good Campbell's lean meat used."
,,,,,"Good taste, I'll get more!","This Chile was surprising good and not overly salty or processed tasting.  Actually a good, light and tasty lunch!"
,,,,,Campbell Chunky Roadhouse Beef & Bean Chili,"Taste is not bad and there is plenty of beans and beef.<br />Too much sodium. If you have high blood pressure, this product is a no, no."
,,,,,Better than the other Campbell's soups...,"For a microwavable meal, it's great. The meat is indeed a mystery, but expected for the price. If it had higher quality meat, we'd be complaining about the price increase for the product.<br />If you're looking for a cheap, quick alternative meal at work, this works nicely. Add some sour cream and eat it alongside rice for a more fuller meal.<br />I'd prefer a home cooked chili, but who has the time to shop/prepare it when working over 40hr/wk. I've had worse chili in restaurants for much more.<br />I just purchased Campbell's Firehouse Hot and Spicy Chili because I do prefer some heat. Will review them later this week when I receive my shipment."
,,,,,Best Lunch Ever,"When a beautiful young vixen from work offered to buy me lunch, I was elated.  But, at the time, I was unaware she was not willing to spend more than three dollars.  So instead of going out, we went to the store, where I was unsure about which flavor soup to get.  She recommended the Chunk Chili with Beans, Roadhouse Style.  This was a delicious, hearty meal, and I certainly plan on buying it again, partly to bring back that nostalgic moment of its purchase."
,,,,,explodes in microwave,"When cooking according to instructions in microwave it keeps making popping noises and eventually it pops really loud and flies up and spills all over the place at about 1:15 secs in my microwave, WTF? It has done it to me three times in a row, then I tried it in my sisters microwave and had the same exact problem. I'm not sure this stuff is even safe!"
,,,,,Good product,"Works great,I use it for years. Do not use it everyday though,because it is strong.<br />Good to use fiber instead."
,,,,,Great candy... Cheaters box!,"I love Chuckles, so the temptation to buy some in bulk overtook my better judgement recently. I don't know why, but I was surprised to discover that each HUGE (""Movie Size"" box was mostly air and contained a small clear plastic wrapping with 8-10 pieces of candy in it. I AM old enough to have fallen for this. I ate them all quickly to quell my feelings of having been made an idiot out of yet again by air-filled boxed nothingness. Chuckles is a great and classic candy - But this packaging is quite deliberately deceptive and insulting. I would shop for other packages (at other sites) should the Chuckles-urge overtake me yet again."
,,,,,"Great value, big boxes.","I do not understand the bad review below. The Chuckles boxes come to 40 ounces. The Chuckles bars are 48 ounces at nearly twice the price. That's right. The boxes cost almost half as much.<br />The boxes are big and inside the Chuckles are in a plastic bag. Yes, they are not evenly distributed. Oh, well."
,,,,,Great  Treat,"My brother and I were talking about candy that we enjoyed as children.  I bought the Chuckles Theater boxes as a gift for him. Moist, tasty and there's plenty to share. The quantity may be too much for some, but they always have a houseful of kids watching movies and eating snacks.  This is a great movie treat for all ages at a good value."
,,,,,Bigger box but NOT a good value!,Kind of  a ripoff.  I bought the theater box instead of the 5 piece candy bar version and that turned out to be a big mistake.  Each box has only 8 or 9 pieces and they are randomly filled so you are not guaranteed even 1 piece of each flavor.  One box had 6 green pieces and 3 black.  A better value is 20 pack of the original 5 piece bar.  This theater box is sold by weight (4oz) and not volume.  The box is about 90% empty- Ripoff!
,,,,,KooKoo for Chuckles,I. Love. Chuckles.<br /><br />and they're soooo hard to find.  damn you amazon for providing me a place to order them at WILL!<br /><br />my new diet shot to hell<br /><br />:)
,,,,,Best chili powder I ever tried!,"I had a recipe that called for a lot of dark chili powder and the only place I could find it was amazon.com.  I bought a jar of this and it made two batches of the chili recipe I have.  The chili was the best I'd ever made.  I can vouch that this chili powder really does make a big difference in the flavor of a chili.  It is rich with a bit of a kick.  Everyone has been crazy for it, and I think its due to this chili powder. I'm back to buy the bag this time!"
,,,,,Wheat Nuts from Amazon,Wheat nuts are hard to find in the stores. I was glad to find them on line.  I am very satisfied with the product and  having received them quickly.  Thankyou for such great service.
,,,,,Wheat Nuts,"Compared to a health food store, this Amazon price is far a better value.<br /><br />If you buy these, I suggest that you keep them in the sealed jar.  I had put some in an open snack dish and they absorbed this awful humidity and lost their crunchiness.<br /><br />Otherwise love these as a snack."
,,,,,Very Impressed,"I ordered dried galangal root to make tom kha gai soup.  Although the fresh root tastes better, I ordered the dried root to have ""on hand"".  It does the trick--and the quality is great.<br />TastePadThai shipped my order very fast!  When I opened the box I was surprised to find that they had also included a complimentary assortment of fresh Thai herbs (kaffir lime leaves, lemon grass, thai peppers, and galangal).  How generous!  I will definitely shop with TastePadThai again."
,,,,,Awesomely good stuff!,"Utz Honey Wheat Braided Pretzel Twists are a great snack to keep on hand for a little guilt-free munching. They have a wonderful, mild sweet and salty crunch. With 0g trans fat, no saturated fat and no cholesterol, you'll want to keep them on hand.<br /><br />I absolutely love the packaging. It's very convenient to put out when you have company over, keeps leftovers fresh (Leftovers? What leftovers?), and when you're all done, it's great for storing sewing supplies, little toys, or even a jar to save change for a rainy day!"
,,,,,Great Product,Love the product - don't know why it's not on the shelf at Sam's anymore.  Fast shipment.
,,,,,light snack,It's a low fat alternative to all the high calorie[no good for you]snacks that are on the market and in addition it's taste is very satisfying.To say anymore would be gilding a lily
,,,,,Shoprite brand,"guess what? the shoprite brand braided twists honey wheat pretzels are the exact same thing! They must use Utz as a supplier for them.  There is NO DIFFERENCE, I promise...so start saving and buy the shoprite ones at half price!"
,,,,,Hard to fine but worth the effort,These pretzels are so good.  I used to buy them in my local grocery store but they discontinued carrying them.  Amazon came through and I thank them dearly.  These pretzels have the best flavor and crunch!
,,,,,Tasty Peach Drink,"The Amita Peach Nectar is a very tasty natural fruit drink that is loaded with sugar. So, if you are looking for an alternative to orange juice and can tolerate the calories, you might want to give this drink a try. Also, it makes a nice ingredient in mixed alcoholic beverages such as peach bellinis."
,,,,,Absolutely Beautiful,I ordered this bouquet for valentine's day and was happy to see how great this arrangement looks once it blooms.  you should expect all the flowers to arrive unopened and they mostly bloomed in 2-3 days.  I received 14 stargazer lilies and 19 irises.  the glass vase was simple but functional and attractive.  2 packets of plant nutrients were included and i expect the flowers will last at least a week (5 days so far).  all i did was cut the flowers under running water and plop them in the vase with 1 packet of food.  you could arrange them yourself for slightly better results.
,,,,,I am sad,"I was very disapointed with these flowers. Several of the  stargazer buds were damaged, as if they had been frozen, and several others are such that they will not  open very well, although there is still time for them to improve perhaps. But, the number of flowers for the money was wholly inadequate. On the bright side, the Iris' are blooming nicely and are beautiful. Based on the condition of the stargazers, and the inadequate number of stems,however,  i do not think I will order from this company again"
,,,,,"A bit expensive, but you do get what you pay for","The stargazer lillies in this bouquet have an amazing scent that fills a room, which the recepient told me was ""heavenly"". They live quite long when cared for properly, but it's important to remember that these particular flowers ship in bud form -- on delivery day, they aren't like the picture on the page here, but will reach that point in 3 or 4 days' time. Take that into account and plan ahead.<br /><br />The reason to choose this one over the standard version is the extra stems of the stargazer lillies because, as I mentioned earlier, the scent they carry is fantastic (the more the merrier!)."
,,,,,Budding flowers arrived on time,"I pre-ordered this product from ProFlowers through Amazon two weeks ahead of Mother's Day and was quite happy when it showed up today on the scheduled date. It was delivered by FedEx. The flowers were slightly wilted from being out of water for the 12-24 hours they were in transit but they perked right up after being put in water.  Included in this package was a nice vase and 2 packets of plant food.<br /><br />Keep in mind these are mostly buds and will take a day or two to fully open so you might want to have them delivered slightly in advance like I did.<br /><br />The only possible negative I can think of is the fact I was not provided a tracking number by email to track the package, but it did arrive on time and in good condition."
,,,,,Beware,This company is a sponsor of the Rush Limbaugh radio show.  This means that Proflowers pays for and profits from Mr. Limbaugh's hate speechs against women and non-Caucasian people.
,,,,,awsome lobster tails,"frozen and fresh on arrival awsome tasting highly recomend this co.,the lobster tails were as advertized jumbo and tasty,some of the best ive ever had"
,,,,,Delicious!,Omaha Steaks' Franks are really quite delicious but I could not find out what meats are put into them so I only buy them on rare occasions.  Their web site is really geared for pure beef products with no explanations for products of multiple origins.  I know my sister has multiple GI problems but she can eat one of these every once in a while without a stomach upset.  She does complain of the salt content though.  If you don't care how these hotdogs are made then I highly recommend them for great flavor.
,,,,,Super Yummy!!,This is by far the yummiest maple syrup we have ever tried...and we have tried many! I'm having trouble keeping my husband from over-dosing on the stuff! You can order without worry and be assured of a great product.
,,,,,Maple Syrup,This is a wonderful tasting syrup.  Is great on pancakes as well as ham. It is well worth the money.
,,,,,Excellent,"This is a really nice, rich tasting maple syrup. Those new to maple syrup should try the B grade because it has more authentic flavor and is thicker than the lighter grades. Goes farther on pancakes and in recipes, too."
,,,,,Not for me,"Wow! This really hurts me to do this, but I have to give this syrup the lowest review it has gotten yet. This was my first time ordering  Hidden Springs Vermont Maple Syrup, and I did so because the other brands weren't available in the 1 Half Gallon variety. I wanted to go with 1 Half Gallon this time because I go through the 32 oz. containers too quick and the Hidden Springs Maple Syrup also saved me money by buying it in bulk. Now to the bad part, I usually purchase either the Coombs Family Farms or Highland Sugarworks brands of maple syrup and I love their taste; it was a bitter disappointment when I first tasted the Hidden Springs Maple Syrup and realized I'd made a huge mistake.<br /><br />I do not cook with these syrups, I use them for one thing and one thing only -- pancakes, waffles, or French-Toast. The aforementioned brands I usually purchase are awesome on my breakfast products, but the Hidden Springs Maple Syrup had a very funny off-putting taste that made it impossible to enjoy my breakfast. Don't get me wrong, it isn't nasty, but in comparison to Coombs or Highlands it is terrible.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I feel like I wasted $36 on maple syrup, as I now have about 60 oz. of Hidden Springs Maple Syrup that I won't eat. Perhaps it'll make a good cooking syrup and I can find some good recipes calling for maple syrup. But in summation, if you're going to spend this much money on maple syrup, buy Coombs or Highlands, there's a reason they are the top purchased syrups on Amazon."
,,,,,"Good product, good quality.","Thought I'd take a chance on this, as my grocery store does not know about maple syrup grades (light amber is best).  Price is beautiful -- grocery store charged as much for two 8-ounce bottles as this whole quart.  Shipping time was amazing -- super saver in 1.5 days -- and yum!  Reminded me that it's been years since I bought a 3-pound box of maple sugar candy...  Time to search again... &lt;grin><br />Forgor to mention -- definitely grade ""A"" Fancy -- not grade ""B"" (the cooking grade).<br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005HI556E"">Hidden Springs Maple Vermont Maple Syrup, 1 Quart - Fancy Grade - Light Amber</a>"
,,,,,Hidden Springs Maple syrup,"This is one of the very finest maple syrups I have ordered and enjoyed. I bought the Fancy Grade, for the light amber color. It has a very great taste. I will reorder."
,,,,,Nothing like Vermont Maple Syrup,"This is our second order from Hidden Springs for maple syrup for our B&B.  If they continue with the great price and quick turnaround, not to mention great syrup, we will stay regular customers!"
,,,,,Can I give it 10 STARS?,"Hidden Springs Vermont Maple Syrup is excellent!  There isn't anything on the label that states that this is from anywhere else but Vermont...(some syrups that claim to be pure maple syrup also have labels that state that they may be a product of Canada or Vermont).  The price per oz. is about 81 cents and as I use at least one ounce on my waffles, this bottle will last for about 16 servings.  I will be buying this one again!"
,,,,,Top Quality!,"My wife became spoiled when we were on a fall trip with the taste of light maple syrup. It is not available in the south, so she was very happy to find it from Amazon.com. Hidden Springs is very high quality and have fast shipping. Thank You."
,,,,,Vermont maple syrup at its best,This fancy grade is as good as it gets. You will not be disappointed. This priouct supports the proud Vermont tradition.
,,,,,"Rich maple flavor, good value","I ordered the Grade B Hidden Springs Syrup -- Grade B is my favorite for baking.  I love the strong, rich maple flavor.  This is my favorite amongst several maple syrups that I've ordered from Amazon.  Maple syrup is understandably expensive, but this syrup is a good value among its' competitors."
,,,,,Love the taste!  Best bang for the buck maple syrup!,"Tastes great, and it's a quality product at a price a few dollars cheaper than the alternatives, even at our local supermarkets.  It's tough to find Grade A medium amber syrup in pints.  I'll probably just keep ordering these a few times a year."
,,,,,More please,"Living on Guam can at times leave much to be desired. We were sitting here talking about when we visited our family in Wisconsin and had some home made ice cream at an Amish farm. I remembered how good it tasted and I remembered I had some Maple syrup ice cream while there, sooooo. I got on line and found this 1/2 gallon, price wasn't bad  (here at a local store a pint of REAL Maple syrup will cost $12.00) and it had free shipping. I had it in a few days, and made the ice cream right away. By the way I also made pancakes and sausage for dinner, and this here Maple syrup was as good if not better than what I had 8 years ago. VERY well packaged, and really fast shipping. Nice bouqet, great light amber color, great job to the cooker. Oh yea, by the way, the ice cream came out wonderfully."
,,,,,Great Maple Syrup,"Better than the medium or dark amber grades, also would be a great gift.  Go ahead and try it.  I use it on waffles with some butter"
,,,,,Wow,"Best maple syrup I have had.  Im not a pro and bought some at cosco and threw out what was remaining when this arrived.  I literally have been putting it into a tablespoon and eating it.  This product is ""out of this world.""  I hope the producers dont change a thing."
,,,,,Maple Syrup,This maple syrup is delicious and so flavorful -- Did you know grade B maple syrup has so many vitamins and minerals you could almost not feel guilty about having french toast for breakfast. I also try and use maple syrup where I can for sweetener instead of sugar. The company was wonderful about the shipping and the product arrived packaged well and on time! Enjoy.
,,,,,Very good syrup,This is only the second time I have ever tried grade B maple syrup. I liked this one better than Now Foods grade B. I think it has more maple flavor. I only give it 4 stars because of lack of experience compared to others. I think its priced well and it was shipped well.  I really love it on plain yogurt as well as pancakes and waffles. Would definetly buy again.
,,,,,Maple Syrup,Good price for the size I wanted and great quality.  It was just what I needed for a mead project.  Items was delivered quickly.
,,,,,yummm,We enjoy our maple syrup with waffles and pancakes on Sundays.  This is a great product made in a small farm in Vermont.  The syrup is natural and tasty.  No complaints here!
,,,,,The best Maple Syrup,My husband and I are quite fussy about our maple syrup and we usually buy ours from Canada.  We ran out and decided to try this one and what a surprise it was.  The Grade A Medium Amber from Hidden Springs Maple Vermont is simply fabulous.  Great and fast service.
,,,,,Once is enough.,"Not as good as the reviews led me to expect. Despite great color and good viscosity, the syrup's flavor lacked intensity.  I'll continue my quest elsewhere."
,,,,,yuck!,"Normally I buy the Fruztio Freeze Dried Apricots made by Crispy Green Co. and they are DELICIOUS- but the store I was getting them from was out of stock for a very long time. So, I decided to try the cantaloupe since I like fresh cantaloupe...how bad could they be?<br />My only choice was a large multi-pack bag, so I forked up the money with high hopes.  I tore into the bag, appreciating the single serve sized bags inside. I opened one up and took a bite. Blech! yuck! These tasted like green, under-ripe canteloupe! I was hoping for that super sweet-I could eat this whole melon- sort of flavor....but no.<br />These were so bad that I threw the whole multi-pack away, and that's saying A LOT, because I'm very frugal with my food purchases. I just knew I would NEVER eat the rest of them. Wish I could give a better review, but i can't.<br />But I do recommend the apricots that I mentioned....they are super flavorful and delicious if you love that tart apricot flavor!"
,,,,,Beware of Overpriced Items,"In recent months I have become an Amazon.com Prime Fanatic.  Why? Because you can buy a lot of good stuff cheap (meaning ""cost effective"")and have it delivered in two days for free!  How can you hate that?  But, Beware!!<br /><br />As President Reagan once said ""Trust but Verify"". I have actually corrected his intent because I think he was trying to be too Politically Correct; that is ""Distrust and Verify"". You must ALWAYS shop and reshop, internet and retail, to see what makes Price Sense.<br /><br />To the point: I can buy the 40 Oz. (2-1/2 Lb.) bag of B&J Kona Blend coffee beans in the decorative bag for $16.99 (No Sales Tax in MA) at my local BJ's.  An aggressive Amazon.Com Marketplace Seller is offering the same item for $40.69 plus $8.24 shipping, $48.93 Total.  I will not dignify the sellers price by speculating what the profit margin might be or what the final Unit Price results in.  You be the judge. All I can say again is ""Distrust and Verify"".<br /><br />P.S.  I defend the right of a company to gouge their customers.  That's what Capitalism and America are all about.  Flip side is that others will see the gouging and decide to sell the same product for less money- that's also Capitalism and what we're all about.<br /><br />I would encourage readers to comment on my opinion.  Thank You."
,,,,,Just OK,The coffee is overall OK.  I had to make it strong for it to taste good. When made weak it wasn't very good. My spouse didn't like it however I made it (personal taste). I used whole beans in a Breville YouBrew grinder/coffee maker. I'm glad that I tried it as Kona blend is suppose to be very good. Three stars!
,,,,,This Works! Clears Skin,"I have been drinking this tea for about 2 months now. I have noticed a drastic change in my skin. I normally have really bad skin. I started to drink this for a different reason and then noticed my skin cleared up in the process. I will always drink this now, I've tried so many things for my skin but this beats them all!"
,,,,,Makes your Skin Gorgeous!,"Buy it! If you have problems with ance, blesmishes, bumps etc then you need to buy it. It brightens your skin and smooths out the texture. The amazing part is that you see IMMEDIATE results! By ""immediate"" I am talking about overnight! Drink it and you will wake up glowing with clear, bright beauiful skin! I have suffered from acne since I was 11 years old. At 35 years old, I can honeslty say this tea works beauiful miracles!"
,,,,,Post Gall/Liver stones Detox Tea User,"I have begun to use this tea after doing three natural gallbladder/liver cleanses and watching the stones come out like crazy when the doctors could not figure out why I had so much pain.  The cleanses have helped, but I am now two days in using the tea and have absolutely seen a rise in energy.  I am hoping this continues.  The tea tastes great with added mint leaves!  I am still looking for a tea that also has milk thistle without chicory."
,,,,,I love this tea!,"This is such a good deal for this tea! You get six boxes for less then twenty dollars! Well worth it because I love the mild taste and stomach soothing tendencies it has. It's a great regular detox for the liver, skin, digestion and blood. It's very good with the regular Stevita here on Amazon! I will order this again before I hit my last box! &lt;3"
,,,,,great detox tea,"I have been using this for awhile now. Unfortunately the local stores where I used to buy this stopped carring it and I was able to find this deal on Amazon. I love this tea. I think it tastes great (I do prefer to drink herbal tea without much additions maybe a little organic cane sugar here and there or some almond milk or rice milk).<br /><br />When I was drinking one of these tea bags every day I felt great as I noticed a feeling of ""well being"" it was like many different body systems were working as they should be. I have been diagnosed with the genetic form of fatty liver and I have a lot of allergies. This tea really helps me. I take this tea in addition to the Himalaya Herbal Healthcare LiverCare for LIver Support (aka Liv.52). I take the LiverCare once daily by mouth. Between one of these tea bags daily and one pill by mouth of the LiverCare...I feel great."
,,,,,Worked for my allergies,"I was up visiting my family this week and was having the usual allergic reactions I get when I'm here. When we went out shopping, we happened upon the local health foods supermarket and went inside.<br /><br />I thought I could find a milk thistle tea that could help me. None could be found. I saw the Triple Leaf Detox Tea and figured it couldn't hurt, so I bought.<br /><br />I was amazed at how well it helped. My allergic reactions have nearly gone away. It has worked better than the any of the meds I've used to counter them previously."
,,,,,Works great!,Bought a six pack of these and like using it from time to time...it's a natural way to detox...please be advised start off easy with one cup then work up to two cups a day. I usually do this for about 10 days...then go about 2 or 3 months without this tea and then repeat. All natural.
,,,,,Incredible face mask too,"I've been having trouble w/my skin lately and thought this tea might help. I steeped one tea bag for a few minutes just to wet the leaves and then tore it open. I combined the wet tea leaves w/one teaspoon plain organic yogurt and spread the mix on my face. I soaked a washcloth in the hot tea water and when it was cool enough, placed it over my face and relaxed for 30 min. My skin feels so much better in just one application; much less irritated and it feels moisturized and calm. I highly recommend giving this a try for anyone who might have acne and have ""tried everything."" If you don't want the mess and might be having a breakout in just one small area, simply place a warm teabag on your skin without removing the insides and let it sit for 15-20 minutes. Of course, drink the tea as well to cleanse from the inside out."
,,,,,"So far, it works for me.","I started drinking this tea because I wanted to try something which would rid me of a persistent boil.  I was attracted by the word ""DETOX"" on the box.  I am on my second box.<br /><br />This tea is easy on the tastebuds and I believe that it is working."
,,,,,Does what it says...,"I read many of the reviews and had mixed feelings about this product. I am glad I decided to purchase it anyway. The tea definitely cleanses you inside and out IF you follow the packaging instructions. Plus, it tastes great. I will continue to purchase more when my supply runs low."
,,,,,Good tasting tonic,This is one of the few teas that I will always have on hand.  It is a wonderful blend of beneficial herbs that has a great taste.  I drink it almost every day.
,,,,,Actually surprised that it is this good.,"I was not expecting much from this tea. After all there are literally dozens of products out there each day claiming to be magical cure-all. So, does this detox tea work? I have no medical training other than first aid, but I will say that I do feel refreshed after drinking it. I have tried it hot, warm, cold, sweetened (with honey) and unsweetened. The tea has a very light chai flavor to it, which I enjoy. But I have to say that around $20 for 120 bags (about .60 per bag) that if you are not a fan of tea then I would have to say that this is not for you when you can go to the grocery store and buy plain old tea (that also has 'detox' properties to it) for around $5 for the same quantity. But for something different from the usual, which what I was looking for, I have to say I am pleased."
,,,,,Don't know if I believe the hype...,but this tea taste wonderful!  I would buy it for the taste alone.  It can also be purchased at Wild By Nature.
,,,,,Excelent Tea,I've used this tea for years off and on. It taste great for a detox type tea and I like to use it when I'm on a fast for a few days to help clean my body out. It's one of the few things I allow myself to drink while fasting.
,,,,,Great tea for cleansing,This is a great tea to drink twice a day to cleanse your digestive system.  Recommend drinking once in the morning and once at night or after eating an unhealthy meal to eliminate the waste.
,,,,,Fantastic!,"I saw this tea from my friend's room and asked for a couple. She has the Super Slimming tea and the Detox tea. I usually combine the two. It made me go to the bathroom more frequently than usual, but I feel much relieved like more refreshed. My pimples went away and my back acne is non-existent. The store in my area stopped selling this kind of brand, sucks! I have to purchased it on-line now."
,,,,,Great!,"Thank you so much for offering one of my favorite products in a cheap, bundled package. Great service and will buy again!"
,,,,,Detox tea,Detox tea is good for helping to cleanse the body of most of the modern world fast paced living. Very good price and fast delivery. would buy it again...
,,,,,It's so good you'll need to buy extra to sprinkle on the wife!,"Really!<br />This stuff is pure magic for chicken, and pork.<br />I've added it to veggies, FRENCH FRIES OMG!!, beans, you name it.<br />The perfect balance of sweet, salt, and spice."
,,,,,Awesome Rub!!!!,This rub is great stuff.  I have had several dishes that will absolutely become part of my weekly diet.  This rub completely enhances any type of potato sprinkle it on sweet potato fries or cubed new potatoes.  It adds tremendous flavor to chicken and ribs great for a variety of things.  MKS
,,,,,Loaded with MSG,"I bought this based on the rave reviews posted previously -- but one of the main ingredients is MSG. There's gotta be a way to make a good BBQ rub that's not loaded with the stuff, which gives me and my wife nasty headaches......."
,,,,,The BEST!,This is our family's go to BBQ spice. We highly recommend it and have shared in many extended family stocking over the years.
,,,,,USED THIS PRODUCT FOR MANY YEARS AND GLAD AMAZON CARRIES IT,This makes frying chicken easy.  I've used this product for over 20 years but it's not always available locally.  I was glad to find it on Amazon.  It is also good for making ranch fries.  Just dip the potato wedges in water and coat with this and fry.  Perfect every time.  So is the chicken I make with it.
,,,,,Best wafers out there,Just put those in the fridge and have them with your coffee - nothing beats that
,,,,,"""This Tea should get the Nobel Peace Prize""","This is a very good tea as far as teabags go...traditionally loose tea is always better quality than teabag teas, But this is the exception...being organic as well as the least processed compared to other teas(White tea is the least processed of all teas)...teabags impart a subtle paper flavor that loose teas are free of...these bags are a cut above other teabagged teas(the subtle teabag flavor is less of a factor in this instance)... and are an excellent choice in leu of saving money...It took about six weeks to finally get delivered, but it was worth the weight...This one is a no brainer...!!!"
,,,,,"such a special gem, this one!","after reading the other reviews, i'm confused and don't think that anyone was talking about THIS TEA! (sounded like most comments pertained to prince of peace green tea, and don't have anything to do with the instant dong quai and red date tea that i clicked on...that being said, this is a remarkable tea...it's delicious, it's instant (so you don't have to wait for it to steep) and it's really good for you...i just love the taste of this, but then again - i enjoy the uniquely-bitter flavor of dong quai (but this isn't bitter, it's yummy!)...for those who don't know, dong quai is considered to be ""ginseng for women"" beceause it's very high in vit B12 and helps to keep women from becoming anemic (due the their monthly cycle)...it also is said to help regulate irregular periods, when used on a daily basis...that said, this tea is special because it helps to ""draw one's energy"" downwards (and the red date, adds to this effect in that red is the color of the 1st chakra)...in other words, this tea has aphrodisiac qualities and will create pleasnt feelings when taken before bed (and it's ""good for you"" and it tastes good and it's a snap to make)...so what's there to be quibbling about?"
,,,,,"After at least a year drinking this tea, some thoughts.","My household has this tea stocked up at all times.. not to say it's my favorite tea, but it's my favorite day to day tea. We tend to drink Green Tea for its health benefits and as Green Teas go this one is affordable and fairly high quality for tea bag types. A few notes.. you have to be fairly careful about steeping this tea, it doesn't have a whole lot of tolerance from ""crisp and delicious"" to ""overpowering and slightly off-putting"". I guess I attribute that to the freshness of the tea. I'm not sure. I've had a lot different results with loose tea in a ball and some herbal teas. While this tastes good when you get it right, if you forget the cup for a few minutes, it's not forgiving. That said, that's the only real drawback to this tea. Yes. I've had teas I would rate five stars, six if I could. Yes, they also cost 5-6x more than this easily for a quarter of the amount of tea. Bottom line, if you drink a lot of tea, this is a good brand to buy. If you don't drink a whole lot and would rather buy something really high quality for the few times you do partake of it, I'd look elsewhere."
,,,,,"Good tea, very gingery",This tea has a wonderfully strong ginger flavor.  The bags come individually wrapped in foil packets.  It steeps fast and the resulting mug of tea is murky and delightfully aromatic.  I love it and will undoubtedly use every bag in the next month or so.  The one thing I think anyone buying this product should be aware of is that they add stevia to the bags.  I am usually not a fan of stevia (to me it has a bitter aftertaste) but it was not overwhelming here.
,,,,,Tea,Purchased this tea because of recommendation. Product arrived well packaged and quickly. I am very pleased with this product and will purchase it again.
,,,,,it is a good product,I have tried this product before and I really love it. The price is fair and I enjoy it...
,,,,,Good tea wish it came in loose tea too.,I am sensitive to Caffeine and supposedly the White teas have 1/3 approx. what Black teas contain. And about half of what the green teas contain. This probably varies all over the place however. Often a decaf tea isn't. If you want no caf you need to look for caf free teas and drinks. I find a kick to this white tea but it definitely is not as bad as some of black teas. My husband and I can't tolerate a lot of tannins and this seems to be high in them as the other reviewer mentioned it's astringent properties. But we temper that with milk or 100% Cranberry Juice concentrates as well as lemon juice or powdered. Good both hot or iced. Looking forward to making sun tea for ice tea with these bags. Look on the net this item is cheaper as are all the Prince of Peace items else where even after paying shipping which is usually reasonable. I hope they don't up the price just because everyone else's white tea is higher. I wish it was available in a loose tea too. A smooth flavored good tasting tea that reminds me of teas I had as a child and at Chinese restaurants. Beats anything I can buy in local supermarkets.<br /><br />I did try the organic version and no way. This one is better for some reason. Stronger and overall a better product even the bag it'self is better than the organic's.
,,,,,good tea,The tea is good and fresh. We enjoy it. The shipping is fast and cost is reasonable.<br />I recommend this product.
,,,,,Nice Product,You get enough in each package to make a good size cup of drink.  It is consistent in its flavor and the amount you get in each packet.  I have purchased it a couple of times.
,,,,,Great herbal tea,If you don't have the time to cut up ginger and boil it for it's wonderful flavor here's an alternative.  This tea is refreshing.  True ginger flavor and punch is wonderful.
,,,,,Wrong Product wrong Name,"Gold Prince has made a terrible mistake.  There are two products.  COLDAID and FLUAID.  THey are different formulary.  Unfortunately they display Fluaid picture on the Amazon website and their own website but the words are COLDAID.  THere is a separate product for Coldaid.  Regardless -- if you order the FLUAID on AMAZON you will get the COLDAID...the picture is not the product...the words under the drop down menu are worthless...as they all default to the same product COLDAID.  If you want FLUAID, which is the superior product, don't buy it from AMAZON or off of the sellers website.  It is a mistake.http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002P936UK/ref=cm_cr_rev_prod_title"
,,,,,Bought at my local supermarket,I found this in the organic aisle at my local supermarket.  $[...] for one box of 100 opposed to 3 boxes being sold here with no shipping or waiting.  I would just like to know if anyone knows if this is a good quality for being a bagged tea.  I'm not a Pu-erh expert and I am looking for something as authentic as I can get without paying an arm and a leg.  Can anyone suggest a good quality??  The only reason I gave this a 3 is because it is something you can find at your supermarket without buying a pack of 3.
,,,,,The worst 'tea' I have ever tried.,I used quotes around the word tea because I doubt that the bags contain tea.  I wouldn't be surprised if the bags contained ground up sticks instead of tea.  I would not give this product a single star; it deserves zero stars in my opinion.<br />This tool is not allowing me to continue without giving the product at least one star.
,,,,,"Delicious, worth the money","I wanted a candy that would last me more than 5 seconds and wouldn't double my weight over the course of eating it. Caramel apple pops fit the bill perfectly: 60 calories, and they last long enough to satisfy my sweet tooth!<br /><br />I went looking for these in local grocery stores and couldn't find them, but luckily Amazon saved the day. The pops came in the packaging that is shown in the picture but (as another reviewer pointed out) they look like they were home made. The pops vary in size, shape and mixture. However, it didn't really bother me and unless you NEED perfectly shaped pops with just the right combination of caramel and hard candy, I doubt it will bother you either.<br /><br />Overall, highly recommended! Just wish stores would start carrying these again!<br /><br />BTW, here's the nutrition information in case you want it:<br />Calories - 60, Total Fat - 1g, Sodium - 15mg, Total Carbs - 15g, Sugars - 10g, Calcium - 2%"
,,,,,My favorite candy of all time!,I have been searching in the grocery store for these caramel pops for ages!  I used to suck on the during my kids sporting events.  As good as I remembered them!
,,,,,tastes like the real thing,These are my favorites and I have reordered more than once.  Perfect for desert without all the calories and is soooo good.  Cant find these locally so go to Amazon for my candy fix.
,,,,,Suckers that can actually make you happy - that good.,"These were local during Halloween and then we couldn't find them. Of course they were here at Amazon. They look like they were made in your kitchen as they are not uniform in shape or size, but they are amazingly good. It's like going to the fair and getting a tart green apple covered in yummy caramel. They last a really long time which is good as they are 60 calories each, but they stop me from wanting a 300+ calorie desert so they're a good deal. I do find myself smiling while I have one; they make you feel like a kid.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002DNJTQI"">Tootsie Roll Caramel Apple Pops 48 count</a>"
,,,,,Inaccurate Product Description!!!,"I ordered this product thinking it was going to come in a box of 24 (as it is described in the product description). I was a little unsure of whether or not this could be too good to be true, but when I saw that the weight of the item was marked as 6.1 lbs and the shipping/handling was $8 I felt pretty confident that I would be receiving the 24 count box that I thought this to be. When I received the package there was only ONE bone in it. So pretty much I spent $10 on ONE bone that I could have gotten at the store for $3. Dont make the same mistake as me! VERY poor product description by Ozbo!"
,,,,,I believe this is the one i baught.,"it is WONDERFUL, never had a flower yet, i just LOVE the leaves! May 2012 i accidentally dropped it... broke 2 of its good leaves as it hit the floor! BUT it grew right back, this is what makes me so happy, i was so scared it would die on me! But no, this beauty came up with 2 more leaves. LOL!!!!! Love it, just awesome plant, you need fertilizer and good soil for these kinds of plants, it all depends on what you have as a soil/starting stuff..."
,,,,,Bel Paese Cheese Medallions,"Bel Paese Cheese is an excellent soft Italian cream cheese.  These medallions arrived in excellent condition and were allowed to rest for a day under refrigeration.  The taste, while a bit bland, was very good and was spreadable on water wafer crackers.  The ordering process through Amazon.com was a troubling and difficult to complete, but the shipping was relatively quick.  I would recommend this product."
,,,,,Excellent,"It is now 110 degrees here, so I am leery of ordering the cheese.  But it is excellent, and I will be ordering it as soon as it hits the 80's."
,,,,,OK,The coffee was send quickly. It was satisfactory but not as good as other Mocha Java coffees I've tasted (perhaps because I now have to stick to decafe). The company sent a sample of decafe Costa Rican coffee which was very good.
,,,,,"Love,love,love my nature's path granola!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","I am in love with this product!!! Not only me, but also my 18-month old twin boys eat it almost everyday for breakfast. My parents, my niece, my sister and her boyfriend all love it as well.  So, as you can probably tell by now, this is really a delicious cereal. Also, I know that I'm eating something that is good,healthy and organic for me.  Usually I'll eat it with soymilk and some fruit, and it keeps me full and satisfied for a very long time. My household will never run out of it!  I hope that you always keep this product in stock, cause we can't live without it."
,,,,,"Awesome price, good product","Costco stopped carrying this near me, so when I found out it was on amazon for cheaper, I was so excited.<br /><br />It came pretty quick, was at an unbeatable price, and was the same good hot cereal I got from the Costco (no damage or anything)."
,,,,,excellent breakfast granola and snack,"I purchased this pumpkin/flax granola from amazon and could not be happier.  I actually take it dry everywhere i go.<br />It makes an excellent snack,  i am anxious to try all the granola's now.  The omega's are high,  what better way to get them and it doesn't take much to satisfy a sweet tooth either.  The granola has just enough sweetness to satisfy any cravings, and is healthy too,  a win win."
,,,,,Too sweet!,"I really like this granola - their hemp granola is my favorite. REALLY good stuff. However - it's just too sweet for my taste. Most granola is dreadfully sugar-laden, and other than the healthy ingredients, I feel like I'm chomping on some commercial-grade grocery store sugar cereal... -___-<br /><br />That said, the texture is very satisfying and it is tasty. Just a bit sweet. You've been warned.. ;)"
,,,,,Nature's Path Organic Flax Plus Granola with Pumkin Seeds,Good stuff! and I like the fact that buying like this results in much less packaging.
,,,,,"delish, healthy, pumpkin seed, cereal, great","Found this cereal at Costco originally.  Was happy to see it here on Amazon.  Been eating this every morning for two years, and it still tastes great.  Very healthy."
,,,,,BEST CEREAL EVER!!!! BEST DEAL ON SUBSCRITION ORDER,"This cereal is LOVED by everyone in the house as well as anyone who comes to visit.  Even my 6 year old and 4 year old nephew.  The best price is on the subscription order.  Costco used to carry, then quit, and I found on here was by far the cheapest price.  Once in a while you can get a coupon for other places but for all time price is here.<br /><br />The cereal is loaded with the Omega's you need as well as the fiber.<br /><br />You can't go wrong but watch out you'll be hooked."
,,,,,Granola plus flax and pumpkin seeds,"I have been receiving this product from Amazon for more than a year from Amazon, because I can't buyit around here.  Not only does it taste good, the flaxseed and pumpkin seeds have helped me raise my good cholesteral."
,,,,,"Yes, it's good, but. . . .","I usually order this item from Amazon since our local grocery stores (Walmart and Safeway) do not carry it, but. . .I would expect that buying in bulk would be cheaper, but instead, six bags of 26.4 ounces is eight cents PER OUNCE more expensive than buying six boxes of 11.5 ounces.  Shouldn't it be the other way around? This is not a savings at all."
,,,,,Good and hearty cereal,This cereal is good and will get you full and satiated. It is best mixed with a lighter cereal otherwise it is too hearty and heavy.
,,,,,Excellent breakfast.,I've probably ordered three cases of this stuff and eat it several days a week for breakfast.  great stuff!.  Minimal packaging.  Minimal waste.
,,,,,I love this cereal,"This is the best tasting cereal I have ever had in my entire life!  We eat it nearly every day for breakfast, usually adding a half a banana and some chopped up walnuts.  Some of my family even put blueberries on it!  I would never do that!  I occasionally buy it at Sam's or Costco (usually while traveling) but it ends up cheaper here at Amazon, especially with the wonderful Subscribe and Save option.  My shipments magically arrive!  One thing to note - you must keep your granola refrigerated to make it last - especially if you buy this 6 pack!  The oils will go rancid if you store it in a warm location.  This goes for nuts and seeds too!"
,,,,,Quality Product - Real Food,"I eat a mix of this along with the [ASIN:B000E4ALF6 Nature's Path Organic Heritage Flakes Cereal, 32-Ounce Bags] nearly every morning.  This is good healthy food unlike the popular sugary cereals most Americans eat.  I enjoy the taste, and it doesn't leave me starving by mid morning.  The price is also more reasonable when I buy it by the case."
,,,,,Great product!,"My family loves this granola!  Whether sprinkling it on their yogurt or eating it in a bowl with milk, it has a great taste!!  The 26 ounce bags are an excellent value!"
,,,,,Delicious!,"Product arrived undamaged and quicker than expected; it's fresh, and excellent when stirred into plain Greek yogurt for a break-time snack!"
,,,,,Great item!,This is a great cereal if you're looking for a variety of textures and high fiber.  We love it!
,,,,,Absolutely the BEST Granola!,"This granola is full of flavor, delightfully crunchy without shredding your mouth, and a very good value for your money. My husband (whose favorite cereal is Count Chocula)likes it and has been eating it every day. Can't think of a thing they should change."
,,,,,Excellent Organic Granola Cereal for All,"Pros:  flax seeds, organic, fiber, pumpkin seeds, taste!<br />Cons:  price<br /><br />Yum.  I used to avoid granola cereals because they were hard to chew.  A friend visited, brought a box of Nature's Path Pumpkin Flax Granola, and forgot to take it when he left.  So, I tried it.  I was hooked immediately.  Not only was it tasty, but it wasn't jaw-breaking hard.  It wasn't mush either.  Perfection.<br /><br />The only problem with this cereal is the price.  For someone on a fixed income trying to eat right, it's expensive.  It is hard to find it for less than $4-5/box and that's just too much for me to spend on a small box of cereal.  I bought this bulk package from Amazon when it was on a super sale, but on accident I didn't hit auto renew and the price went back up.  When it goes back down I'll renew, but until then it's other places that are cheaper.  These are Fred Meyer in bulk and Trader Joe's ($2.89/box).  The best price is Fred Meyer.<br /><br />Make sure that you chew the cereal good.  The flax seeds are whole.  If they enter the body whole, they EXIT whole as well, and that means you get zero nutrient from them.  So, chew it up!<br /><br />It's EXCELLENT with So Delicious Coconut Milk, a non-dairy, non-soy drink.  I just use it for this cereal.  I have stomach problems and this combo is one of the few things during the day that doesn't ache me."
,,,,,"Our ""standard"" breakfast","My husband and I eat this cereal almost every day (probably five out of seven) and have it delivered via subscription.  For me personally, it is a tad on the sweet side, so I often add about one part ""generic"" Rice Krispies to about four parts granola and mix them in a large Tupperware container ... that maintains the nice light but crispy texture."
,,,,,"This cereal is great nutritionally, is really tasty, and is a great buy.","Nature's Path makes some excellent cereals, and this is definitely one of them. I really enjoy it because it has great flavor, a good crunch, and is a very healthy food. In fact, this is my favorite cereal-- hands down.  I totally recommend buying the pack of 6-- a penny saved is a penny earned. Besides, it's not like the cereal is going to go bad; it'll keep for months until you break the seal."
,,,,,Nature's Path granola cereal,"Best granola cereal I've ever eaten!  You don't have to soak it before eating, lol."
,,,,,Too expensive,"Love this cereal, but I buy  a 35 oz box at Costco for $7,49 and sometimes am offered it with a $2 /box coupon. Its too high here"
,,,,,Very good,"Definite an auto delivery item. Plus Nature Path is one of the companies have not been bought by large companies. Like ""Silk"" has been bought by ""Dean""."
,,,,,Happy Now,"I thought it might not be a great idea to buy meat through the mail but it turned out Great.  I love Gyros and thought why not order from Amazon, at least that would make me feel better about the whole idea.  My order was delivered in 3 days - it would have been 2 but we had a storm and the driver couldn't get here.  It was fabulaously packed with ice packs that we could reuse. The gyros taste great and are pretty conveniet; it makes a great and easy lunch. I will definatly order this again and again."
,,,,,Qick Delivery and tastes good too.,"I recieved the delivery quicker than I thought I would. I was concerned with how the food item would be packaged. The Gyro slices were still frozen when I recieved them. The gyro slices were delicious, they taste better than most of the restaurants I frequent."
,,,,,Yippy Gyro,"I love a good Gyro. I order this meat all the time and it never let's me down. Some good Pita bread lettuce, tomato and any other veggie you like will make a great lunch"
,,,,,GYRO LOVER,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000LRIJC8"">Gyro Meat (LOAF) approx. 5lb</a><br />Finally i can enjoy Gyros at home without going out.With gasoline pushing five dollars a gallon it is nice to know that this gourmet food is just a few feet away in the ice box.<br />Now how about Greek olives and Feta cheese so we can have a nice Greek salad with our Gyro."
,,,,,"The meat is very good, but there is no break on shipping","We have bought this gyro meat several times. It's good and since we don't have a greek deli for almost 60 miles, it's as good as we can get for now. My problem is the shipping. Yes it has to go by next day air, that is fine, but we'd buy 4 or 5 loafs if they would combine shipping. But they do not. It's $50/loaf shipping. I know it does not cost much more to send 5 as it does 1. Other than that, it's good meat.<br /><br />Note: this is the sliced version. It's sliced very thin. Too thin for my tastes, but others love it. I prefer to buy the load and carve thicker pieces.<br /><br />Either way it's good, but we can only afford it for special occasions due to the price of shipping and the lack of combining shipping options. They really need to add this item to prime program."
,,,,,Have ordered before but this shipment was unusable,"The 4 pounds of sliced meat itself are contained in a single cardboard box; no vacuum seal or even plastic wrap.  That box is placed in another box that is lined with styrofoam sides, styrofoam peanuts, and three frozen ""ice"" paks.  It was shipped FedEx 2 Day (that's what the label says), not Overnight or next business day, which begs the question, what exactly did the $52 in shipping charges for 4 lbs of meat and minimal packing materials actually go towards?  I think I know, and it wasn't shipping.<br /><br />Years ago ""Grecian Delight"" (the brand on the box) was sold in a local supermarket chain in Gyro Kit boxes - each contained a pack of sliced gyro meat, one pita, and a small container of tzatziki sauce.  I loved them, but I haven't seen the kits in decades and was happy to find a way to once again stock the freezer with gyros-in-waiting.<br /><br />The gyro meat itself, which I have ordered before, tastes just like ... gyro meat!  As I said, I love gyros, but there's no place nearby where I can drop in and enjoy one.  So I have ordered the product in the past, but in this case, I've ordered for the last time.<br /><br />I've gotten the individual 1 lb vacuum packets before 3 at a time and they've arrived frozen or nearly frozen. Not so this box.  The meat was not only thawed, it was only slightly cool. I'm afraid I'm going to be throwing it out.  Too risky.  For $52 shipping charges, it should have arrived in perfect condition. Overnight. I won't make this mistake again.  I can't afford to."
,,,,,not the best not the worst,the meat has some flavor i feel it could have a little more and also the slices are very thin so they burn quick if you dont pay attention. the cucumber sause from the same place is amazing though!
,,,,,Gyros Anytime!,"I love a great gyros platter, but there aren't many Greek restaurants/pizzarias where I live.  So I was excited to see this offered here!  The meat was still frozen when it arrived, and the styrofoam-lined shipping box can be reused, ice packs and all.  I bought it pre-sliced, and the slices separate easily from each other in the box so you can keep it frozen and just use a little at a time.  My only complaint is that I like thicker slices; but in terms of flavor, well, I challenge you to make it at home yourself and have it taste this good.  I have a feeling I will keep a box of this on hand from now on.  One note:  the box does not contain heating instructions.  I tried it in the broiler and over-browned it.  I wish I had read the instructions here before that first attempt!"
,,,,,"great stuff, completely satisfied","Forgot expedited delivery and it is hot here in the South but the meat was cool and still very good.  The cucumber sauce is a great addition.  I didn't have any pita bread but this is still great on white dollar rolls, sub rolls or wheat bread.  Can't wait to try it on pita bread tonight!  Highly recommended."
,,,,,Not Cheap!,"I have been researching the web to find some gyro strips and this is the most expensive so far, maybe look elsewhere?"
,,,,,Popcorn for the lazy who hate to shop,"Let's face it--if you have no willpower (can't limit yourself to eating 1/3 of a normal-sized bag of microwave popcorn) and HATE to shop at your local store, Prime Eligible ""Point/click to Porch"" doesn't get better, good price.  It's not homemade, but it fills the craving--what more can you ask for that has only 100 calories?"
,,,,,Best 100 calorie popcorn!,"I really like this product, but haven't seen it around for awhile.  I am glad Amazon carries it. It has the most buttery taste of all the 100 calorie popcorns out there.  Very little unpopped kernels, perfect serving size bags."
,,,,,"Amazon, don't stop selling this!","I love this popcorn! I like popcorn very much, but I usually eat too much of it. I keep these bags at work for when I want a snack. If I had the big bags, I would eat the whole thing. These are perfect...it seems like you get a big pile of popcorn, but know you still are okay with calories compared to a candy bar (or even 4-5 hershey kisses!) I have tried other 100-calorie things and it is like you get some pitiful amount, but the popcorn seems like a real treat!<br /><br />I see it is currently out of stock and not available for subscribe and save :(  I hope they get more because it is really the most tasty/buttery flavored of the brands I have tried."
,,,,,They ALL Pop!!!!,"Great popcorn and a lot for 100 calories. Tastes great, just about every kernel pops, and it is not too salty. I will surely purchase this again and would recommend it for anyone who likes great popcorn and wants portion control too."
,,,,,Cheaper Price - But Popcorn Older and Stale,"Pop Secret is by far my favorite popcorn and I eat about 2 bags a day. I normally get the homestyle, but is was always to dry when I ordered on line so I went to the Butter thinking it wouldn't be so dry. No such luck. When I buy from the grocery store it is much more flavorable and fresh and it doesn't cost that much more. I checked the dates and the store vs online bulk was about 6 months different on average which probably causes the difference even though they both are in the sale by date range. with this said, I am going to have to discontinue buying this product online unless something changes and I'll really miss it coming straight to my door since I eat so much. I waited for 3 months of getting this product before posting because any company can have a bad batch of anything. Sorry. I hope this changes in the future!!"
,,,,,Small bags,These are smaller bags of popcorn that are equal to about half of a normal sized bag. I'd prefer the normal sized packs.
,,,,,100 calorie pop corn,We like Pop Secret 100 Calorie pop corn. The taste is good takes about one and a half minutes to pop and there is about 3 cups of popped corn. Pretty good snack and just 100 Calories. Good buy and price here on Amazon
,,,,,More butter please!,Could have been more buttery but otherwise a great popcorn for 100 calories. It seemed to be larger than other 100 calorie popcorn bags.
,,,,,Excellent Product!  Great taste!  Perfect portion!,"Excellent Product!  Great taste!  Perfect portion!<br /><br />Only 100 calories in a bag.  I microwave it for 1:30 and it comes out perfect each time.<br /><br />Fills a medium tupperware bowl.<br /><br />And it was an very good value!  Only $8.98 for 3 boxes, shipped! ONLY 30 cents for each bag!"
,,,,,Treat From Home,Our deployed troops love this treat as it reminds them of home. A very popular connection from home during down times.
,,,,,DRY NEEDS MORE BUTTER,"Ok,lets start of by saying that my microwave is not very good for popcorn,but in my local grocery store I can buy Market Pantry popcorn for $ 4.25 for 18 large bags and not all the pop corn kernels pop but very yummy,and I went through 2 boxes in less than a month,but then we have this one Pop Secret and my first 3 bags BURNT  and was not happy so I decided not to follow the instructions,so I decided to put microwave at 3 minutes and let it stop when it got to 20 sec's,ok so it didn't burnt it,but due to me not placing it microwave on high,it took a very long time to cook it,and so anyway's it began to pop,and so I thought great,at least no burnt popcorn,and I was so excited and HUNGRY to try it,due to the ratings on this site,I began to eat it,and my first reaction was,oh my good ness,DRY DRY ,where is the butter ?..its called butter pop corn so where is the BUTTER ? did it get all dryed up in microwave ?"
,,,,,Nothing amazing about it,"3 months later and I STILL HAVE 1 more box, after giving away the other TWO boxes lol. There's no taste in butter and although it's a reasonable price, It's too simple, no flavor and you can sometimes get burned popcorn even though the same timing worked for the same PACKAGE and the same MICROWAVE (so never leave your popcorn unattended)!"
,,,,,love it,Perfect bland of spices.  This is a wonderful curry powder and the quanity is generous.  It has lasted me a long time!
,,,,,Delicious!,"I am not generally a fan of Starbucks regular coffee--or most coffee, for that matter--but this is delicious!  Light and flavorful, not grainy at all.  I only add skim milk and yet it's creamy and sweet.  I wish they made the blonde in decaf, too."
,,,,,"Finally, taste!","I was placed on a severly restricted sodium diet three years ago, and one day at my local market happened upon this product.  It was like I finally had stepped back into the world of taste. If you have ever read nutrition labels on soups you know a sodium restricted diet does not allow for the vast majority of them.  So now I can have a healthy organic warm bowl of comforting soup whenever I like and if I purchase it through amazon by the case, shipping is free making it a lot less expensive then my local market.  Give it a try!"
,,,,,Not a vegan soup,This soup is very very sweet.  They left out the salt but it is full of sugar.  There is 14 grams of sugar per serving with two servings in a can.  Too sweet for me.  Also there is dairy butter in it so it is not vegan or for someone with dairy allergies.
,,,,,Why so much Sugar!!!!!,"This would be a great soup if Health Valley  lowered the sugar content at least in half or more. The company took the Health out of the Valley with this soup.When one buys a No Salt soup they are doing so for Health Reasons, if one is watching their salt  intake they are  also in most cases concerned about their sugar intake .I buy health Valley No Salt Soups because  they are Organic , No or little salt  and yes low in sugar, 14 grams of Sugar is shameful.They do a good job with their No Salt Soups except with their Tomato Soup. Fix it Health Valley . Use carrots as a sweetener?? Give it some thought???"
,,,,,Yucky and way too sweet,"This is awful.  So, I got out the pots and pans and made a great no salt, little sugar and no butter fat tomato Soup using fresh tomatoes.  Tastes much, much better than this Tomato Soup!"
,,,,,no salt soup ad says no cholesterol; the facts are different.,"This is for the Health Valley Tomato Soup No Salt Added, 15 Ounce Cans (Pack of 12).  I purchased this specifically for a person with heart problems.  One of the problems with canned foods is too much sodium, so the No Salt Added is a good feature.  Another problem is cholesterol content.  The ad for this product states 0 mg cholesterol, which is a false statement.  Apparently the supplier did not update the ad when Health Valley changed their recipe for their No Salt Tomato soup and is now adding cholesterol.  The cans I received have a ""NEW"" on the label, which the can shown in the ad does not.  This is an honest mistake on the seller's part, but he should correct it, and he should list the true contents."
,,,,,Health Valley Tomato Soup No Salt Added,My husband had a stroke and needed no salt products to keep his blood pressure down.<br />Health Valley no salt soups are great!  They have low sodium and also taste great!
,,,,,good taste,I'm on a low sodium diet and this still has plenty of taste without salt
,,,,,Soup not as pictured,This is not the product I received.  They changed the product.  It now has chunks of tomato in the soup.  This is not what I wanted.
,,,,,Wonderful heart healthy soup!,"I LOVE this soup!  I have right sided heart failure, and need to watch my salt intake.  This soup is as close to 'Tomato Bisque"" by Campbell's, as you can possibly get.  You need to try this :)"
,,,,,very tasty,Since I have to watch my sodium I have looked for a very low sodium soup for quite awhile.  Campbell's made one but no longer does.  If you had tried theirs this one is far tastier and better.
,,,,,Love this soup,Hard to find at my local grocery and Amazon has a deal on 12 cans that come periodically throughout the year.  GREAT idea.
,,,,,Grotesque! Maybe I Got a bd can but ick!,Actually I can't remember a time when I tasted anything so bad. I really could not believe it was meant to be eaten. Cannot imagine anyone liking this.  It did give me a good example for my daughter why it is important for her to take her health seriously.
,,,,,Nice pasta sauce for low salt,"This is a good alternative to pasta sauces if you are supposed to lower your salt intake.  Spaghetti, lasagna, etc."
,,,,,We love this!,My husband and I love this!  I usually caramelize Walla Walla sweet onions to mix in the cooked product.  We have also added sauteed zucchini and chopped fresh tomatoes.  I do not feel deprived being on a gluten-free diet when I can indulge in this.  (And no it is not mac and cheese - and I don't believe it is meant to be!)
,,,,,"Not Kraft, but delicious & different...","I bought Say Cheez on a whim - I am vegan and usually only use Road's End products to fulfil my Kraft kravings ... cravings.  It's definitely not like Kraft nor Road's End, but there's something distinctly cheese-like about it and I found it to be delicious!  I added both peas and broccoli and was pleasantly suprised to find that the cheese sauce was plentiful enough for all of the pasta, peas, and broc.  I also must say, as my first time trying to cook gluten-free pasta on my own, this was painless and didn't crumble apart (like it could have).  I gave it 4 stars, not quite perfect, but definitely a great treat (every once in awhile, for those of us on a budget)."
,,,,,need to eat,"This smelled so good it drew a crowd in my newly wheat free kitchen ..everyone liked it from 40 -8.. It is not the creamy kraft mac and cheese, but it has a great smell and flavor,  and we came back and bought more.."
,,,,,"Not mac-n-cheese, but very good.","My daughter has a severe allergy to dairy, so we have tried a couple of products, trying to get close to macaroni and cheese.  This was very easy to prepare, and while there wasn't a creamy sauce, the spice packet was very tasty.  My picky but food-allergic 5-year-old, as well as my husband and I, really enjoyed this product.  I got online today specifically to order this product."
,,,,,Definitely NOT Mac & Cheese (not even close),"I received this product for free and was quite excited to try it out.  I have a child who has a variety of food intolerances and Namaste brand products have been a Godsend to our family.  Unfortunately this ""Say Cheez"" product is terrible and my child wouldn't touch it.  Normally, this isn't a problem when my child tries new foods, but I couldn't even stomach it!  It is NOTHING like mac & cheese.  The sauce isn't even creamy?!?!  Very disappointing."
,,,,,Don't waste your money!,"After trying the Namaste pizza crust I was blown away--Delicous!  Possibly, the best pizza crust I've ever had.  So, I tried their Cheez Pasta thinking it would be great as well.  Big surprise.  It was awful.  I could barely tolerate one bite of it.  I, like one of the other reviewers, will save the pasta but make my own cheese sauce.  The cheese sauce smelled and looked terrible.  Do not waste your money on this product!"
,,,,,Amazing delicous!  Better than I expected!,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000LKXG8W"">Namaste Foods, Gluten Free Say Cheez Pasta Dish, 9-Ounce Bags (Pack of 6)</a><br /><br />My sons are die-hard boxed mac'n'cheese addicts, but I recently discovered that keeping one of them off of gluten and casein really helps him out (he is hyperlexic).  I tried this, not really expecting the kids to like it, but it was a hit!  I was so in love with the aroma that I ate a serving myself--something I don't usually do when I make boxed mac'n'cheese.  I still like my own recipe for vegan cheese sauce better, but this will be great for a time pinch, or for the babysitter to prepare.  Not exactly like kraft (or even Annie's or Back to Nature), but delicious in its own right.  Five stars!"
,,,,,Very good,My 10 year old daughter has alot of food allergies.  Two of them are gluten and milk.  This is as close to Mac and cheese that we have found.  We both thought it was very good.  We added tuna to it.  We will definitly be buying more.  Keep adding new products to your line.
,,,,,Say Cheese - Great,"My son was recently diagnosed as having food sensitivities to wheat and especially to milk/cheese.  Not having mac and cheese (his favorite food) was especially hard.  We tried some other products, but the general consensus was they tasted like cardboard.  When we tried this the whole family loved it.  It doesn't really taste like Mac and cheese, but tastes great non the less."
,,,,,Great with chicken and broccoli,"Love getting something new for my diet. Tried it plain, then added cubed chicken and broccoli. It was really good! Everything I have tried from NaMASTE HAS BEEN WONDERFUL. Keep coming up with new things!<br />Elinor in Kennewick, WA<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000LKXG8W"">Namaste Foods, Gluten Free Say Cheez Pasta Dish, 9-Ounce Bags (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,Over priced but really good.,"I really like this Namaste Foods ""Say Cheez"" gluten free, vegan macaroni and cheese style dinner. It's not Kraft Mac & Cheese but I like it a lot better than Kraft! It's zesty and peppery and it does taste like cheese.<br /><br />I thought that the 3 tablespoons of oil they say to mix the ""cheez"" sauce with was excessive.  I used one teaspoon of oil and 1/2 cup of the cooking water I reserved from the pasta and let it simmer while stirring for a few minutes to thicken.  Then I added the pasta and green beans that I cooked with the pasta.  It was really tasty!  The macaroni, which was a nice texture and cooked up beautifully, has ridges to hold the sauce.  Do not over cook the pasta though, it needs maybe 8 1/2 or 9 minutes.<br /><br />It's just way too expensive.  I really think Namaste Foods could make money and still price this much better to be affordable for the average person.  No need to price gouge people who have food sensitivities and parents who have children with Celiac Disease.  I know this type of product costs more to produce because of the need for a dedicated facility and the special ingredients but your prices are ridiculous.<br /><br />Most families are on a strict budget especially in these days of poor economy and job losses.  Even on Subscribe & Save this product was almost $4 a bag!  Come on Namaste Foods.  You don't understand the meaning of ""Namaste"" if you charge such exorbitant prices."
,,,,,Just nasty,"When we found out my daughter has celiac disease, we were on the hunt for a reasonable mac&cheese. We tried everything we could fine. This was one of the worst. The cheese flavor was pretty bad. I took one bite and had to spit it out. My daughter didn't like it either. I am keeping a spreadsheet of items we tried so we don't waste our money on it again in the future. The best mac&cheese we found was Annie's rice pasta and cheese."
,,,,,Unique different great GF alternative to mac & cheese,"This is a great product for those who need gluten, dairy & casein free foods.<br /><br />Of course it doesn't taste like REAL macaroni and cheese! Geez - do you really think shelled hemp nuts and other things are going to give you a creamy cheesey texture or taste? If you're looking for something to replicate annies GF mac and cheese (which DOES contain dairy) then you will search in vain. You cannot get real cheese flavor from non-cheese products.<br /><br />However, if you're realistic and are aware that non cheese stuff won't actually taste like cheese yet you want something similar to mac & cheese then this is a great option! We really like this mix. It has a unique taste. We tend to alternate this stuff with Road's End Organics GF Cheddar Penne & Chreese <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002FJYCZS"">Road's End Organics GF Cheddar Penne & Chreese 6 oz. (Pack of 24)</a> The Road's end is closer to cheese but again, those who want a real cheese flavor/consistency will be sorely disappointed. However, for those of us who cannot have real cheese this stuff is great.<br /><br />We mix in veggies with ours (you know the ones that are little squares of carrots, peas, corn, etc.) and I use hemp milk when mixing for a bit more substance and flavor. Also if you add a bit of trocomare <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001ELL3FA"">A. Vogel Trocomare, Organic Spicy Herb Seasoning Salt, 8.8-Ounce Canisters (Pack of 3)</a> it makes a huge difference in flavor (actually trocomare makes a huge difference in the flavor of everything! We love it and use it on just about everything.<br /><br />So - for those who expect a real cheese flavor - don't even bother and stick with real cheese or change your expectations.<br /><br />For those who realize it won't taste like real cheese but who want something different and unique (and gluten, dairy, casein free) - buy this, it's great!!!"
,,,,,NOT Macaroni and Cheese,"I thought this would be a good gluten free replacement for Annie's mac n' cheese, but this was not really macaroni and cheese. The sauce was not smooth and was spicy (not hot-spicy, but strong-flavored spicy). My kids were appalled by it and while my husband and I could eat it, we didn't really like it. Since I bought a case, we threw away the rest of the spice packets and made our own cheese blend for the rest of the pasta. I would suggest trying one bag from a local store first if you can, otherwise be aware that you may just be buying expensive pasta with useless spice packets if your family doesn't like this unusual flavor."
,,,,,This is delicious!,Even though it doesn't taste exactly like regular mac-n-cheese it is a very tasty product.  My child who has many food allergies was extremely excited to be able to eat mac-n-cheese again.  It is very delicious.  We've made it many times.  It packs well in a thermos for lunch.
,,,,,"Thank you, Namaste!","Suprisingly, I LOVE this pasta dish. When it comes to vegan macaroni and cheez products, some are delicious and others are totally not. Well, at first I wasn't sure about this one but as soon as I looked at the ingredients list and recognized EVERY item and seasoning I instantly became comfortable with the idea of this being edible; turmeric, onion powder, garlic powder, rice milk powder, etc. This may not be macaroni and cheez but Namaste is a great tasting pasta meal so Im glad I chose to try it because I love it and maybe you will, too."
,,,,,Should have a 6 Star Option,"I'm about 6 months in to my transition to becomming vegan.  Every once in a while I think of something that I ""miss"".  All week I was craving Mac and Cheese but since I stopped eating the meat and dairy, my body has stopped knowing how to process those foods.  Soooo, I couldn't ""cheat"" and eat Mac and Cheese.  I was in the Gluten Free aisle at Central Market searching for pastas when I stumbled upon this.  I took it home and after about 25 minutes of my husband picking on me, I tried it out.  Ooooh Eeeeem Gheeee was it incredible!<br />I even stuffed some in my husband's mouth...he promptly requested more - to which I replied, Absolutely not :)<br />I had to come on Amazon and buy a whole set so going forward I am never without :)<br />Seriously, the best Mac and Cheese I've ever had!"
,,,,,My toddler and I love this!,If you are looking for a good pasta alternative this one is great! If you are looking for a Mac & Cheese replacement keep looking. We are celiacs who have caesin intollerance so our taste have changed over the years. This is a very healthy yummy alternative for those living a minimally processed lifestyle. It does not have a cheese taste. We ate it mixed with broccoli. My 2 year old and his little buddy had 5 (child sized) helpings! They have not had much grain recently and demolished everything on their plates. I added the little bit leftover to my evening salad for a different texture. Was still very tasty.
,,,,,Namaste Cheez Pasta,"I eat this all the time, it is SO good. Even though it says cheese, it is actually dairy free, but the taste is just superb!"
,,,,,Great Option for Allergy Sufferers!,"Just tried this for the first time today.  To be honest it's been years since I've had a ""real"" mac and cheese from the box.  However I thought this was great.  I adjusted the ratio for the sauce, using 1 tablespoon of oil instead of 3, 2 tablespoons of water and adding 1 heaping tablespoon of Tofutti sour cream to powdered sauce mixture.  This worked great for me, and made it seem much creamier than I had expected from other reviews.  I also kept out a little of the starchy pasta liquid before I drained it to help coat the pasta with the sauce.  Added in some cooked chicken, fresh tomato and parsley.  It was delicious,  I'll definitely do this again!"
,,,,,Thumbs-up from the kid,"My 6 year old is on the GFCF diet and is picky. This is definitely not mac & cheese, but the flavor is similar and he gobbled it up. He can have ghee because it's casein free & I think that made a big difference in the flavor. I'm happy to have another thermos meal for his school lunches."
,,,,,"Great, as long as you completely forget about cheese!","The first time I tried this, I thought it was beyond hideous. I was expecting something that tasted vaguely like pasta with cheese sauce. I had only recently developed a total dairy intolerance on top of the gluten problem, so was having very bad experiences with ""cheez"" & cheese subsitutes. Every one I've tried has been uniformly hideous, so it's not like I had high hopes for this dish. It is not even remotely cheese-like (or even ""cheez-like""), and hoping for something that tastes within screaming distance of cheese messes up one's expectations something awful. However, I found if I approach this dish after erasing all thoughts of 'cheesishness' from my mind & tastebuds, it's quite good. Actually describing the taste is a bit of a challenge...it's got tons of flavor, not hot-spicy but turmeric/onion/garlic/paprica/butterish/something... maybe it's the hemp seed that gives it the indescribable yumminess I can't begin to compare with anything I'm familiar with. Whatever the heck it is, I find myself madly craving it quite often.<br /><br />As it comes out of the package, it's not creamy at all , though one can up the creaminess by adding whatever milk substitute you prefer, & I've also added 'fake cream cheese' to it with decent creamy results.<br /><br />Still, I wish they'd get rid of the 'cheeselike' claims & call it something else; it seems to me it'd better prepare folks for liking it, thus increasing the sales, thus BRINGING DOWN THE PRICE, which is my main complaint with this & all the Namaste foods. I really feel like too often those of us with real, severe, dietary restrictions --who have no choice in a specialty diet as opposed to those who are ""going gluten free"" as a way of jumping on a fad bandwagon-- are being budgetarily scr....er, shafted by specialty food makers.<br /><br />If anyone has been introduced to Cincinnati chili as an adult without adequate prior preparation, the shock experience of this pasta mix is something akin to that. I grew up on Cinci chili & have a lifelong addiction, but if you approach it expecting something like good ole texas chili with meat 'n' tomato 'n' beans, your taste buds are in for one heckuva shock. Those with no preconceived notions frequently love the stuff, but it is very, very different from traditional chili, having been concocted by Greeks."
,,,,,Delicious!,"I bought this because I am vegan and not because the product is gluten-free. The only other vegan Mac n' cheese substitute I have found/ tried are the Roads End products. My husband is hard to please when it comes to vegan cheese, and he hated the Roads End stuff but loved this. I do too--it's way better than Roads End stuff. It has a delicious flavor that is not at all spicy. Also much easier to mix up than the Roads End.<br /><br />Not that expensive at all. I'll definitely be buying more. Love it!<br /><br />Btw the people adding tuna and chicken are missing the point of eating a vegan meal!"
,,,,,Good Quality,These beans are a good find as none of our local stores carry any dried pink beans!
,,,,,Fantastic!,"This was a great sampler of green coffee to roast.  I haven't tried them all yet, but I liked the variety of regions and it really was a great product for a great price!"
,,,,,"Great Coffee, Great Prices, and Great Service!",I have purchased green coffee beans from several local and internet providers often with poor results.  U-Roast-Em is the exception. I have never had bad service with this company and now purchase all of my coffee from them.  They provide an excellent selection of high quality beans at great prices.  They do a great job with packaging and shipping!  Most of my orders have shipped the same day I ordered.<br /><br />I have tried most of their coffees and have yet to be disappointed.  If you are looking for a good mid priced coffee I would recommend La Minita Tarrazu de Costa Rica.<br /><br />I highly recommend you check out U-Roast-Em for all your coffee needs!
,,,,,One of my favorite snacks,I love these snacks!  Great variety of flavors all mixed into one bag.  I also send them to our troops in Afghanistan and Iraq and they ship so much better than chips.
,,,,,Yum!,"Let me tell you right now, if you love these, DONT ORDER THEM IN BULK.  I fell in love with them when i first tried them from the vending machine at work, and for a small tiny packet at $1, i was like ""forget this, ill get mine from amazon and stock up"".  Which i did.  They arrived in excellent condition, they were tasty, crunchy, NOT EXPIRED (unlike some other food items from here).  I was completely satisfied with the shipping and handling and condition and taste of item.<br /><br />Now i am sick of Gardetto's cuz i had too much too soon. But they definitely are very yummy, my colleague's love them too.<br /><br />(:"
,,,,,I'm addicted to this stuff,Makes for a great snack both at work and at home.  Glad to be getting this shipped to my front door every two months.
,,,,,"Gluten, Dairy, Corn, Soy Free Bliss!","My son has missed peppermint patties for over a year, these honey mints are FABULOUS and he loves them too.<br />Allergy free goodness!"
,,,,,Delicious Complementary Flavors,"Modeled after York Peppermint Patties, these mints are a perfect match of chocolate and sweet.  The honey filling is a bit thinner and sweeter than most mints this style, but you can tell all the ingredients are natural.  The thin layer of gooey honey complements the unsweetened chocolate beautifully.  I highly recommend this tasty treat!"
,,,,,"Goodbye York, hello Honey Acres!","I am, well was... a York pep patty addict but after reading the ingredients(sugar, semisweet chocolate (chocolate, sugar, lactose, cocoa, cocoa butter, milk fat, soy lecithin and PGPR, emulsifiers, and vanillin,. artificial flavor), corn syrup, invert sugar, egg whites, and oil of peppermint)I realized I did not want to eat corn syrup, which I avoid and why is it now in there when years ago, it wasn't.  I mean the first ingredient is sugar.  Then there's PGPR, I believe a preservative, that also, was never an ingredient, years ago.  Soy which is an  allergen to many as well as eggs.<br /><br />Ok, enough of that rant.<br /><br />I have been trying to find a substitute and you can see a review of another honey mint I recently tried. I wasn't totally thrilled.<br /><br />So yesterday while at my health food store I bought one Honey Acre mint and gave it a try and wow, so yummy!!!  The filling is creamy and the chocolate a velvet consistency and the mint, well minty!  Had I known, I would have bought more than 1.<br /><br />Sooooo, I just ordered a box of these and they will be my official peppermint patty addiction. :O)"
,,,,,Awesome mints even for those without allergies,"I tried these because a friend had allergies (I don't) but I am hooked. The honey goes down ""smoother"" than the sugar in regular mint patties. These mints are yummy!"
,,,,,"Yay Gluten, Peanut and Soy FREE Yum!",I got these from a local bee keeping specialty store in Sacramento... they are SO GOOD. I came online to see if I can get them for less! Highly recommended for fellow food allergy sufferers!
,,,,,Melted Morsels,"Be sure the weather is cooler than 90 degrees when ordering.  I recieved mine right off of the UPS truck after they had been riding around at least half of a day and I recieved 6 bags of  hard melted dark chocolate.  I tried to contact Amazon but was unable to so ended up getting them from ""Family Fun Shoppe"".<br />Several days later I finally reached someone at Amazon and they took the time to straighten things out and refunded my money.  The gentleman I talked to was VERY nice, and the Pieces were/are very tasty !<br /><br />The problem was in the packaging...the second shipment had a small bag of dry ice in it."
,,,,,Melted,"I ordered 18 bags of York Pieces for wedding favors, half of the bags were melted and Amazon has a no return policy on food items. I would not order food products from a online vendor again."
,,,,,Minty Chocolatey Pieces,"If you like mint chocolate, or York Peppermint Patties for that matter, then there's no reason you won't like the taste of these.  They're just like eating M&Ms but with minty freshness added to them.  4 stars because I think these candies are overpriced for what they are."
,,,,,Great Tea!,I absolutely love this tea!  It has a great mild taste to it.  The fact that is decafinated is a great plus!  I highly recommnend this tea!
,,,,,AMAZING!,Just rec'd these yesterday and not only was the shipping super speedy but the candy was extremely fresh! Will order from again without hesitation!
,,,,,the best!!dark chocolate covered marshmallow. my deam bar.,"i found these in california  and i remembered them when  i was a kid.  they dontsell them in florida<br />(where i live)  so i bought them  on amazon, and whenever my children visist me of i go west, i load up on them.<br />nothing better!!!!"
,,,,,Everything is Rose-y,"This is my first experience with antioxidant-rich white tea.  Also, I like the fair trade and organic labels.  Since I prefer mild teas, the subtle, honey-like sweetness and floral, fruity notes of white rose tea are immediately pleasing.  A stronger brew intensifies the rose flavor, but the tea remains smooth without bitter tannins often found in green and black teas.  The white tea and rose blend is exquisite - a wonderful, soothing treat by itself or with dessert.<br /><br />This has become my favorite tea!"
,,,,,"Romantic, Natural, Unique Tea Experience","*****<br />White Rose Velvet Garden White Tea is an exciting and unusual premium Numi tea. It is a white tea, more rare than other types of teas and less processed as well, having been only plucked and dried (not oxidized). Some people find white tea a subtler and more enjoyable type of tea experience (I know I do). White Rose Velvet Garden White Tea is certified organic, and is both fair trade and kosher.<br /><br />It is made from hand-wrapped white tea leaves and rosebuds! Rosebuds---can you imagine?!?! Those are the only two ingredients, and they are delicate and delicious, different from anything else I've ever tried. This Amazon page erroneously lists some other ingredients but these are absolutely NOT in this tea---it is made from only white tea and roses.<br /><br />This tea, like all Numi teas, is packaged with 100% post-consumer waste, and the tea bags are made from biodegradable filter paper. Numi does not believe in the practice of adding oils or flavorings to bolster flavors, and I love this and can tell the difference; for this and many other reasons, Numi is one of my favorite tea manufacturers.<br /><br />On the box, Numi writes: ""Roses have been a symbol of love and beauty since the dawn of romance. Numi's enchanting Velvet Garden(tm) releases a provocative sweet rosy taste as it blushes a soft pink. With every sip this liaison of organic rose petals and delicate Spring White tea imparts a silken smoothness. White Tea is the tender bud of the tea plant making it exquisitely subtle and supremely healthy. High in antioxidants and vitamin C, this uplifting Fair Trade Certified white tea blend will be the beginning of a long lasting love affair."" I have to agree. This is truly an amazing tea.<br /><br />If you like Numi teas, get it---you won't be sorry. If you are new to Numi but love white tea, or are curious to try it from the description, I do not think you could find a better source than Numi. If you are looking for a romantic tea, White Rose Velvet Garden White Tea fits the bill perfectly.<br /><br />Highly recommended.<br />*****"
,,,,,Delicate but still satisfying.,"If you want a mild cup of tea that still has a decent aroma and flavor, this will do the trick. Wonderful for drinking with ""biscuits"" and other mild cookies or cake. Wonderful when you just want something that feels like you are pampering yourself. Good for a steambath facial, too. I steeped one bag five minutes by accident, but it still was delicate."
,,,,,Amazing tea,"I first tried this tea when it came in a Numi sampler set that my daughter brought me for Christmas. I tried it and fell in love with it. Only problem is that no store in the area carried that tea so I ended up buying it online at Amazon and the price was fair, tea is amazing."
,,,,,Amul ghee,Have generally enjoyed this product over a few years-but found that one container (of 6-1 lb. size that I was shipped) so far had quite inferior ghee-with the milk fat still present-made me a bit sick-and threw away rest of container.
,,,,,This Stuff is Great,"So I bought this after watching an Alton Brown episode where he talks about Ghee being clarified butter, the best you can get, and really deals with high heat. I put it in fridge, and I scooped out what I thought was about 1/4 cup spoonful for my cooking last night. Wow! Cooks well; no more smoke than cooking on any high heat setting, and I had some left over. I think maybe you should use less than you originally use of other oils as this does not evaporate the same. Really cool stuff, and no additional taste of french fries, or other stir-fried items. Coolness!!"
,,,,,Great for cooking!!,"I initially bought this for my hair (crazy I know)after seeing it on a hair forum.  When it arrived, I chickened out and used it for cooking.  I am from Haiti and I use this on almost everything.  It has a slight nutty taste, easy to use."
,,,,,What a waste of money !!!!!!!,"I had high hopes for this product...just to be completely let down by the broken lids on both jars which let the ghee leak all over the shipping box!  It was shipped with broken lids from the seller because the 2 pieces of broken lid were NOT in the box!!!!!!!!!!  I will NEVER buy anything from this seller again!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  BE WARNED!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  The ghee was runny, probably from sitting in storage at the seller's business with air getting to the product through the broken lids."
,,,,,Absolutely Perfect - Just don't heat at too high a temperature,"I bought Fireworks Wisconsin white birch popcorn 64oz seeking the perfect popcorn for my Whirleypop popper, but I wrecked the batches simply by cooking them too hot. Now I've discovered on my own how to do it RIGHT.<br /><br />  If you want perfect popcorn, here's my secret:<br />- Add 2-3 ounces of oil in popper + 3 kernels;<br />- On electric stove (yeah, I know) set burner between 8 and 9 on scale of 1 to 10. (If you set it for 10, you'll have small, lousy, and even unpopped results. Who knew!)<br />- When the 3 kernels pop, add 1/3 cup of kernels (any more than this and they'll spill over)<br />- Meanwhile, melt 1/4 to 1/3 of ONE cube of butter in microwave for 35 seconds.<br />- When popped, (turn the whirley handle to prevent popped corn from overheating / or shake your pot (the one on the stove) if you lack this popper) and pour into your favorite bowl, (don't put butter into your popcorn cooker) drizzling butter and sprinkling a smidgen of salt.<br /><br />  The very best you've ever had . . . true?<br /><br />Another Tip: I deliberately make extra, putting the rest into a FoodSaver airtight canister. It stays genuinely fresh throughout the week.<br /><br />  P.S. I'm just a happy customer. I don't sell popcorn. (But now I eat too much of it.)"
,,,,,Wisconsinmade Gourmet Variety Pack,"Absolutely loved this product, loved the variety. My granddaughter and I are sampling each one. She likes the mini kernels."
,,,,,"Not quite lime, more lemon grassy...","And that's not a detraction!  I love lemon grass tea!  I love this soup!  Going to double my order on the next one I make, this one is so good.  It's the only one I've ever found that I made a second when I finished the first.  I'm thinking stirfry some chicken breast, add a handful of slivered veggies, and make this one a real meal!"
,,,,,Good noodles but incredibly high sodium content,"The good news:  Very easy to make, tasty good noodles, a few veggies<br /><br />The bad news: 1130 mg of sodium (about half your daily allowance) -- Yikes!<br /><br />Notes: 290 calories, 0 mg Cholesterol, 2g fiber, 2g sugar, 7g protein, 11g fat (6g saturated fat)<br /><br />These noodles are tasty, the broth is OK, there are a few veggies sprinkled on top.  Pour in boiling water wait 3 minutes (or longer) and you're done.  A good, quick, hot lunch when you're in a hurry.  But don't eat too often as the sodium content is incredibly high and would not be good for you.  OK once in awhile, though, unless you're on a sodium restricted diet, in which case, why are you even reading this far? ;)<br /><br />Tip:  You can probably reduce the sodium content by pouring off the liquid after preparing and eating just the noodles and veggies.  Or add your own healthier liquid broth, even, if you wish.<br /><br />Also, you can let this sit for 6-8 minutes of even longer and it will be good and still very hot."
,,,,,Lauri1,I love this flavor. The don't sale is specific flavor in the stores here in Missouri. I love it :)
,,,,,worst ramen ever!,"the lime flavor is too much, didnt think it would be so strong. its ok but there are much better flavors to be had. would not buy again."
,,,,,good taste,Taken is taken but after you have a lot of different kinds you tend to establish a taste favorite. Basically if the price is good go for it.
,,,,,Okay,"I would have liked to give these 2 and a half stars, because they're basically middle-of-the-road. They taste more or less like a Fig Newton, and you won't miss the fat at all. They are not as soft as Fig Newtons.<br /><br />These cookies are great if you're on a diet because two of them are only 100 calories, however they are on the small side so you may end up eating more.<br /><br />I would say that overall, the taste is comparable to a Fig Newton, but slightly more firm in texture and a smaller size. With all things considered, if a box of Fig Newtons and Fig Newmans were sitting on the shelf together, I would probably just go by price and get the cheaper item and not think about the brand."
,,,,,Delicious,"I stumbled onto these and decided to give them a try.  I'm so glad I did... they're delicious!  You would never know they're fat-free.  The calories are lower than in other brands, and the taste is far superior.  Try them!"
,,,,,Addicting,They taste slightly different from what I remember of Fig Newtons (obviously distinct).  I was a little surprised at first; it seemed maybe a little more clay-like?  And then they grew on me.  They're addicting.
,,,,,Delicious cookies!!,These are a healthy altrnative to cookies. THey taste great and area a pretty good value I recommend to anyone looking for a healthier cookie but still has the taste you are looking for in a dessert treat.
,,,,,My Dog Loves this Food!,We've used this food for over 4 years and my dog loves it. It's healthy and keeps her coat shiny and her belly full!
,,,,,Good with lots of milk,"I buy this coffee from a Japanese grocery store. (Though I would happily buy it from Amazon if the price were similar.) I prepare it by heating a mug of equal quantities of milk and water in the microwave, then adding a tablespoon of this coffee and some sugar. I imagine, like all instant coffee, it would taste pretty nasty without the milk, but with milk it actually is good. This is the fastest way to obtain a cup of tolerable coffee that I know of, short of buying it already made."
,,,,,Ginger Extract,"It's all it's cracked up to be. I will be ordering more when I run out. The product came in the mail, on time, and in good condition."
,,,,,NOW foods organic quinoa is great,"I had been looking for an affordable priced quinoa since it is pretty expensive in my store. I noticed Amamzon.com had a sale on quinoa and took a chance on buying it since we had never tried it before. The NOW brand of quinoa is organic which is a HUGE plus. The grains are pretty clean already but I still rinse before using. The qunioa is great, so very healthy and cooks in around 20 minutes (even though the pacakge states 15 minutes). I will be definitly be buying this brand again from Amazon.com as it arrived in excellent condition within 5 days.<br /><br />If you are thinking about trying/buying quinoa, I highly recommend the NOW organic quinoa."
,,,,,Very Happy!,"I love quinoa for its delicious taste, texture, and nutritional benefits. This NOW brand as sold on Amazon is a great bargain. I do a lot of research before I purchase items and feel satisfied that this is a good deal. There is no need to soak this quinoa. The bag tells you to rinse it before using, but I never have and we love the taste. Quinoa can be used in a variety of ways, but one of our favorites is to make Quinoa Pilaf, the same way you would make rice pilaf. (Simply chop onions, carrots, and celery and saute in olive oil. Then add the quinoa and substitute chicken broth for the water and cook as per directions.) Quinoa is a great substitute for rice in general. This brand provides consistent results, always cooking evenly.<br /><br />TIP: When I open a bag and use a bit, I store the rest in a glass mason jar to keep it fresh. That way it's easy to scoop out what you need and stores beautifully in the pantry/cabinet."
,,,,,very clean; organic; cooks evenly,"I consider myself a fanatical quinoa connoisseur, having enjoyed many varieties over several decades. NOW Foods Organic Quinoa is by far the best quinoa I have ever purchased. First, the quinoa seeds themselves are thoroughly pre-rinsed. There is no acrid flavor whatsoever. There is no impurity in this product. It is 100% quinoa. I do not know what NOW has done differently, but this quinoa cooks more evenly than any other quinoa. I mean, the seeds all cook about the same -- not mushy, not too sticky. It's about 90 cents per lb more than the cheapest quinoa, but remember that it is organic, while the other quinoa is not. I highly recommend this quinoa."
,,,,,Tasty,"This grain is an excellent substitute for rice.  it only takes two cans of chicken broth to one package of Quinoa to make a lot of very tasty and filling finished product which can be used with gravy, sauce, mixed vegetables or anything you like."
,,,,,Directions say to rinse,"This quinoa has to be rinsed!  I would not have ordered it if I had known that.  There are many other brands for the same price that DON""T require this annoying and messy step."
,,,,,Some of the best mix for Frappes.,Our local coffee shop uses this mix and it's great. I have been thinking about buying some for home but I was wondering if someone could post the nutritional information for me.<br /><br />Thanks!
,,,,,The Best!,"I absolutely love this delicious drink.  I usually have it iced and top it with whipped cream, so refreshing and such a treat.<br /><br />Its so easy to make and tastes like a choclatey mocha thick shake.  We all love it and recommend this highly.  Have also used their smoothie mix...also excellent!"
,,,,,DELICIOUS-ALL NATURAL COOKIES,I ordered Soozies Doozies Soft&Rich Cookie Gift Tin for my daughter for Easter.<br />She loved them because they were FRESH and made with ALL NATURAL INGRIDIENTS.<br />I would purchase them again.
,,,,,A hearty delicious soup,"I love Amy's because you can actually pronounce all the ingredients she uses--no chemicals, no preservatives, nothing you need a chemistry degree to decipher--and she makes pretty tasty food.  Normally, I'm not a big fan of canned soups, but the Alphabet Soup is an exception.  It's a rich tomatoey broth with a few vegetables and pasta alphabets.  I like soup without a lot of ""clutter,"" so to speak.  My sole complaint is that the alphabet noodles are a bit mushy, but then what do you expect in a canned soup?  Still, if you're looking for something to warm you on a chilly or rainy day, Amy's Fat Free Alphabet Soup fits the bill."
,,,,,Delicious,"As I am writing this review, I am sitting here, at my computer, wolfing down the food because I'm starving.<br /><br />I heated product in a saucepan over high heat for 5 minutes until boiling. Base tastes like regular tomato soup. Better than Campbell's tomato soup, I would say. There are vegetables mixed in: corn, green beans, and carrots. Green beans and carrots basically turn to mush in my mouth, and I can barely taste them. Corn isn't mushy, but doesn't taste sweet. I suspect this has something to do with being canned in a tomato base. Alphabet noodles have a nice texture. Smooth, and not too mushy.<br /><br />I love this soup. Very satisfying for something that is fat-free. Will re-purchase many times. I'm sure this would also make excellent kids' food."
,,,,,Alphabet soup deliciousness,"I will start off by saying I have yet to purchase this on amazon but I have purchased this at health food stores. So I can not say how it will arrive to you but i cant tell you about the taste.<br />  Amy's organic has consistently done a great job of creating delicious vegan/vegetarian organic food. This soup has a very similar taste to certain canned pasta product. It totally brought me back to my childhood. It is extremely delicious, low in fat and calories. It is a quick and healthy alternative to the old stand-bys we are used to. Whether to give your child a better lunch or a trip down memory lane for yourself please give this soup a chance."
,,,,,Brings back memories!,"I'm pregnant, and lately have been craving foods from my childhood (like peanut butter sandwiches, barbecue chips, apple juice). I've been in a soup mood lately and bought a bunch of Amy's soups at Whole Foods. This soup is light and delicious, and tastes like spaghetti O's! Of course it is more soup-like and healthier, but that's what this reminded me of!"
,,,,,easy kid treat,My kids love this soup and I love having a few on hand. It's a reliable meal with some toast and cheese. I often add tofu to it to bump up the protein and they never notice.
,,,,,A delicious tomato based soup!,"This is my 7 year old son's absolute favorite soup that he takes to school almost every day.  Despite my attempts to broaden his taste buds he continues to insist that he wants this ""red"" soup every day with crackers.  My husband and I have also tried it and it is quite delicious.  Like all Amy's products you can feel good about giving your child this soup.  The ingredients are all organic and tasty.  I have offered my son Campbell's soups in a pinch when I have run out of the Amy's Alphabet soup but he really doesn't care for them.  If you read the label on Campbell's soup you will realize that they are loaded with junk.<br /><br />Amy's soups cost a bit more than traditional canned soup but I think the extra cost is justified in higher quality ingredients and delicious taste."
,,,,,Amy's Alphabet Soup,"Although I loved the ease and price of making this purchase online, when it arrived over half of the cans were very severely dented.  A few so much so that it was almost impossible to order them.<br /><br />I definitely have to reconsider where I purchase this in the future."
,,,,,What's with the price??,"I like this coffee, but $37 for two 12-ounce bags? I can get it online from Walmart or even from my local grocery store for $7-9 per 12-ounce bag. Geez."
,,,,,Loves it,My papillon has been eating this for a while and loves it.  It was easy switching from his previous dog food (purina of some sort) and he took to it right away.
,,,,,Real Peanuts!,"I'm a fan of Virginia peanuts, and Virginia Diner does some of the best.  These are peanuts that haven't been fancied up -- not very salty, no artificial flavors, and no oily feel to them.  You get that wonderful, pure peanut taste.  Another plus?  They're BIG."
,,,,,"Item Good...Description and Price, Not So Good","I absolutely LOVE Kashi granola bars!!  Especially these Honey Almond Fax and the Trail Mix variety, but I won't be buying them from this seller.  As you can see on the box shown, these are actually in a SIX pack not a 12-pack as the description states.  So that comes out to 36 bars...for $45??  WHOA! $7.50 a box...I don't think so!!  So, while I would definitely recommend these bars as seriously good food that is good for you (fyi, read the ingredients list...all pronounceable and healthy!)I would not recommend buying them from this seller.  Many of the club stores get them, at least occasionally, and you can get a good deal."
,,,,,From $17.48 to $45.44,"For some unknown reason, the price for this item jumped from $17.48 to $45.44 within just two months. Perhaps the outrageous jump in price was due to the demand of 1.3 billion Chinese. Keep it, seller."
,,,,,"A Good, Healthy Bar that's Not Very Sweet","The bar tastes good, if you're looking for something that's not too sweet. And on that note, you should know that you can probably find a better tasting granola bar, but it probably won't be as healthy for you as this one is.<br /><br />It's a good bar that isn't too sweet, and if you can buy them for less than 75 cents per bar, then I'd say you made a good purchase."
,,,,,Honey Almond Flax Granola Kashi Bars,"I have to admit that these Kashi bars are fed to my sheep as treats, and they love them. I, on occasion have one, and enjoy them as well."
,,,,,Overwhelming number but decent granola bars,The granola bars are pretty decent. They bars are lightly honeyed so it is not too sweet but still sweet enough. The bar is well textured and contains bits of nuts with the flax. 72 bars of it might be a bit much but it is definitely manageable as it lasts a decent amount of time.
,,,,,Slightly healthier but not worth it,"Gimme better ingredients (KIND/Larabars) for more $ or sweeter items (genuine junk) for less $. Not sure I'd invest in a single bar again, let alone this size."
,,,,,"Yummy, Addictive Bar...Can I Afford It?","I'm used to overly sweet granola bars, so when I first had these it seemed like they needed some sugar. But by the time I got through the first box, I adjusted to the lower sugar content and found myself thoroughly addicted. They have a lovely chewy texture with plenty of huge chunks of almond for added crunch. These are GOOD! I would love to buy them in bulk and have them shipped automatically, but I wouldn't pay more than the three dollars or so a box (of six) that Wal Mart or Target charges. So a box of 24 should really be about $12. Even at grocery store prices, we would be talking about $16...we'll see how they're priced when they come in!"
,,,,,medium carb alternative,"If you have recently been on a lower carb eating plan such as The New York Body Plan <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002FL5FD4"">The Ultimate New York Body Plan: Just 2 weeks to a total transformation</a>and found you really feel better eating less starches than you had in the past, finding healthier carb choices to add back to your diet can be a challenge.  I really am grateful Kashi makes this bar.  It has 19 g of carb, 7g pro, 4 g fiber, 5 g fat (mostly from nuts and seeds).  It's fairly balanced, has no artificial ingredients or sugar alcohols, and really hits the spot.  I've tried all the Kashi varieties, and this remains my favorite.  My mother agrees.  If you're looking for a sweeter treat, this is not the Kashi for you, however. My brother thinks they taste like cardboard.  In any rate, the Amazon price is still higher than the grocery store price.  I'm hoping it will drop soon."
,,,,,Awesome,This is 72 for the price of like 24 at the grocery store. If only this were eligible for subscribe and save then it would be perfect. I would not be surprised if the price were to double soon. But I must say these are really good and at a good price.
,,,,,La Piana tarallini,"I found the tarallini to be crumbly and have an unpleasant stale taste. My previous experience with tarallini was different, they were crunchier and not crumbly. Whether this is a specific mediterranean recipe, I don't know, but I would not buy this product again."
,,,,,Like this soba,"I wasn't a soba fan before, but when I tried this I became a fan! Just cook for 5 minutes and drain, served either cold or hot, good with just simplest soba soy sauce!"
,,,,,There are still shells/husks in the bag,"I bought these based on another review from the other product, the Nutiva hempseeds 3 pack stating that those hempseeds have crunchy husks in it and these do not.  I also based my purchase on all the great reviews on this product here.  I was expecting just the white hearts of the hempseeds, sort of like when you buy shelled sunflower seeds.  When I opened the package I was severely disappointed.  It was white with black bits all over the place.  I'll upload a picture when I get the chance, it looked like dirt.  I gave it a taste and it felt like small bits of glass crunching in my mouth, it was absolutely repugnant.  Maybe I received a bad batch, who knows?  I am not here to put off other potential buyers, just telling my story on my purchase.  I'm going to try another product because I really want to add Hempseeds to my diet."
,,,,,Way to go Amazon with this Amazing Price,"Nutiva Organic Hemp Seeds are so good for you.  They are 33% protein, 9% Omega 3, and GLA.  I think the MSRP on these bags is $14 each so Amazon has these priced at almost half-price!  This is a great affordable way to get some healthy proteins and fats.<br /><br />Amazon sent me very fresh product.  I subscribed-n-saved on July 22nd and it arrived via OnTrac on July 24th.  The Nutiva Hempseed package says it was packed on may 19, 2012 and is best before may 18, 2013.  Pretty fresh product and tastes fresh, too.<br /><br />Sprinkle on top of your  cereal, omelets, yogurt, soups, salads, and veggies.<br /><br />Hemp seeds require no advance soaking to derive optimal nutritional benefit.<br /><br />Here is a great way to enjoy Hemp:<br />1cup hemp seeds<br />1 cup spring water<br />1Tbsp maple syrup, honey, stevia, or your favorite sweetneer<br />dash himalyan salt<br />optional flavoriing = cinnamon, nutmeg, vanilla, cardamom<br /><br />Combine all in a blender and blend well until a creamy white milk forms.  Pour through a strainer to remove any husk residue.  Will keep in refrigerator for 4-5 days but I recommend preparing small batches right when you want to drink them as fresh is the most tasty and most nutritious.  You could also make a great milk out of <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0084QP4T4"">Cinnamon Red Maca Almond Butter</a>"
,,,,,Love these!,"These are yummy! I eat them right out of the bag. I throw them into baked goods, cereals etc. I mix them into my kid's PB sandwiches too to add an even extra boost of nutrition to their lunch. (My children need extra calories & nutrition). I have not found there to be too many hulls, either. I will order these again!"
,,,,,I really like Nutiva's hemp seeds!,"I read a lot of the [mixed] reviews here, and I ordered the product.  I actually tried a small bag at the local Co-op.  I absolutely love them.  They are very tasty and have a not-too sweet nutty flavor.  Yes, there are some color variations in the bag, but it doesn't change the texture or flavor.  I eat them in salads, smoothies, with oatmeal, made chocolate candy with them, and eat them straight out of the bag!  I have not found a negative thing about them.  You should try them, you might like them as much as I do!  And, they are organic which is important to me."
,,,,,Great product - no shells/husks,These were the first hemp seeds I've ever ordered. I got them to add to my kale shakes. So far I've been through four  bags and not found one shell. The taste is like that of an unsalted sunflower seed. These include all 21 essential amino acids and are one of many super foods I've added to my afternoon shake. Amazing product.
,,,,,Hemp seeds,I was looking for an additional source of protien. These are easy to incorporate into other foods and even shakes. Great for vegans. They taste great on top of salads or yogurt .<br />A good source of omegas too.
,,,,,Makes my tummy happy,"These tasted fresh and nutty, and I am happy with them.  I eat a few tablespoons daily right from the bag, which I keep in the fridge after I open it.  Great product."
,,,,,Good alternative to sesame seeds,"My son and I are allergic to sesame, so these nutritious little seeds are a good alternative. They're great to add to homemade crackers or even to pasta dishes. Everyone in the family likes them. The reason for 4 stars is that there are some black hulls mixed in that are pretty hard and get stuck in our teeth."
,,,,,Pouch was ripped,"I love this product and order it frequently.  Usually it arrives in a timely manner and in good condition.  When I opened this last shipment I found some hemp seed scattered throughout the box.  I carefully removed the first of two pouches and found a 1"" rip in the middle of the front of the bag.  Most of the product was still in the pouch and appeared fresh and undamaged so I transferred it to a container.  The other pouch was intact.  I hope this is a one-time occurrence, and I will be ordering this again when I need more.  More care needs to be taken to assure that the pouches are handled properly and that they are all in good condition when packed."
,,,,,Everyday food,"These are nutty delicious, and well packaged.  I put a couple tbls in a fruit shake every morning and I get to enjoy the flavor, clean energy and satisfaction of hunger with them.  Thanks hemp."
,,,,,GREAT!!!,"These are so healthy and tasty just to eat by themselves even... kind of tastes like a nut... We even mix a few hemp seeds in with our baby's(about a year old, about a teaspoon-not too much) meals, every once in a while and he enjoys it. If you like eating healthy, this is a great deal! Thanks!!! SHALOM &lt;3"
,,,,,Yummy!,"It's sad that most food based Hemp products come from outside the USA. But this is not a political review, but rather a quality review of a very enjoyable product. Since I eat a very strict Paleo eating regimen seeds and nuts are a large part of my daily routine. When I bake chicken, or make a big salad I always sprinkle on Hemp Seeds. The taste is not overpowering and it seems that Nutiva's quality is by far the best and most consistent. Another great selling point is that it is available through Prime. I'm not going to get on a soap box about the health benefits of Hemp, go look it up and do your own research. I enjoy this food and have for many years."
,,,,,LOve these Seeds,"these are the tastey way to get hemp proetein into your diet my family & I put them in Salads,cookies,breads . I ordered the pack of 3 to be sent every three months seems just about right for my family of 5."
,,,,,Excellent Value,Just as I have expected. The order arrived shortly after I placed the order and the product is fresh. I higly recommend this product.
,,,,,Healthy and Delicious,"I was very satisfied with my purchase of Nutiva hemp seeds. I ordered a 2-pack of them and it arrived fairly quickly. They taste great on their own, but I usually add them to protein shakes to enhance the amino acid profile, or sprinkle them on top of salads for added flavor and texture. My supply is almost gone so I'll definitely be ordering more.<br /><br />One of the reviews said there were still shells in the bag but I didn't find any in mine."
,,,,,Great Flavor and so healthy.,I used the hemp seeds every morning with my protein shake. The taste is great and they are so healthy!!!
,,,,,Going Nuts!,"Nutiva is a company based out of Sebastopol.... California. Their hemp seed is excellent for stir fries, salads, and their 13 ounce pouches last awhile. I've used their hemp seed as a substitute for sesame seed in stir fries in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0836194942"">Simply in Season Expanded Edition (World Community Cookbook)</a>, as well as in the Mayan Wonder Bars and Rasta Pasta Primavera in <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0825305845"">Vegan Fusion World Cuisine: Extraordinary Recipes & Timeless Wisdom from the Celebrated Blossoming Lotus Restaurants</a>. It's versatile and has a subtle nutty flavor. They add extra protein. Nutritious and delicious!"
,,,,,Yummy!,"This is a great product! The label said it was packaged at the end on January, so it was very fresh. These are really good out of the bag, but I prefer to toast them by just putting some in a pan medium pan for a couple of minutes. I have been adding different things to my low carb diet and this is one of my favorites because of the low carbs. About 2 net carbs per 3 tablespoons."
,,,,,"great taste, but hard to open","these are great tasting candies for a sugar-free variety, but they get sticky and very hard to take out of the individual wrappers, especially without getting the candy all over your fingers."
,,,,,Meow Mix has nothing on this shiz.,"I can't sleep past 6 AM anymore because of this food.  One of my cats sits on my face, attempting to suffocate me into consciousness (cats aren't very good at biology..), while the other kneads every bare spot of flesh he can find with his claws of ""love"" until I get up.  If I stop in the bathroom between stumbling out of bed and into the kitchen, I'm treated to a rousing refrain of ""MROW MROW SCRATCH YOWL"" outside of the door--and that's if they don't follow me into the bathroom and circle around my legs like they're caught in my gravitational pull, all the while insisting can opening is a far better use of my thumbs than anything else.<br /><br />The only cons, really.  And they're cute cons, so I let it slide.<br /><br />Suffice it to say, my cats love this stuff.  They eat it, rocket around the house for 45 minutes like they've just done some meth (oh, the power of organic ingredients!), then collapse in the sunspot on my vacated bed and sleep until I get home from work.<br /><br />Cat win?  I think so."
,,,,,Happy cat,"I have a pretty finicky feline. I was a little nervous about trying something new, but it was recommended to me. It has been a huge hit. I don't feed canned food daily, and now she really wants it daily. She absolutely loves it. It is a great price and a great food."
,,,,,Cat didn't like flavor,"Oddly, I have given the cats Turkey & Spinach in the 5.5oz size and they seemed to like it. I bought 2 cases of this 3oz and they only touch it after realizing that I will not give them more food.<br /><br />It may be because I gave them Turkey & Seafood for a while in between. It's odd because they scarf up that flavor, and they would scarf up the Turkey & Spinach in the 5.5oz size. WEIRD.<br /><br />I rate it 5 stars for the ingredients and quality. I always feed them Castor & Pollux. However, as always, test not only the flavor but also the size of the can. When I scoop the food out of the can the consistency in the 3oz cans seems somewhat thicker than the 5.5oz (in all flavors I have tried). This may be a contributing factor to their distaste for this particular combination.<br /><br />Great product, just verify kitty flavor approval."
,,,,,MY SPHYNX CAT REACTS TO IT,"My Sphynx cat loves the food but he has an allergic reaction to it. It makes him cough/choke intermittently over the course of a few days.  He has this same reaction when he drinks milk.  So, I will find some other cat to share the product with."
,,,,,Surprisingly Good if Still Keebler Level,"I generally consider Keebler products to be definitely designed for children, and not appealing to adult sensibilities.  I bought these on chance because I love mint flavored products and they were on sale.  I fully expected to find them gagging and that I would have to give them away.<br /><br />Surprisingly they aren't bad.  I wouldn't buy them again, since there are so many similar products which are better.  But they have good points.  Each bar is large, not as big as a candy bar, but close.  Each bar is individually wrapped, which I thought was overkill for a box of cookies, but that makes it easy to throw one into a lunch box or purse.  Note that you only get six cookies in the whole box.  The cookies are surprisingly light and crispy.  Definitely sweet, but not overly so, unlike many other Keebler products.  The mint flavor is fresh and not wimpy, and the chocolate flavor is mild but still pleasant.  The flavors overall are well balanced with emphasis on the mint, as it should be.<br /><br />I'm not sure if these are designed for children or adults.  They seem much too large to be meant for children, and I'm not sure if kids would enjoy this combination of flavors in this configuration."
,,,,,One of my favorite gluten free cookies,Delicious! So glad I found these cookies!! Softer than your average gluten free cookie with no after taste. They can be addicting!!
,,,,,Almonds,"Blue Diamond Almonds, Whole Natural, 1.5-Ounce Packages (Pack of 24); I buy these nuts every time Amazon has them. They are very good for you and much less expensive then the grocery store when you figure per bag price I pay $.89 here.  I have a heart condition and need all the good protein I can get. These are a good source for this. It is only natural fat and no added salt. I wish I could get them even at a bigger savings with the 15% savings by ""Subscribe and Save"".<br /><br />My husband carries these in his pocket as a mid-day snack and I have my daily dose that my MD orders. They taste very good once you get used to eating no salt or added oils.<br /><br />I highly recommend. I hope this helps."
,,,,,Excellent source of Protein--especially when you're Away from Home.,"I first bought the small, 100-calorie pack box in my local store.  They are a wonderful source of protein without the carbs, salt, and extra sugar that come with other snacks or with roasted nuts (e.g., especially honey-roasted nuts).<br /><br />These whole, raw almonds are great for anyone with a blood sugar issue.  The raw almonds won't make your blood sugar spike; are handy if your blood sugar has dropped and you need a quick source of food; and, the 1.5-ounce bags are sturdy and won't rip--or haven't yet in my overly packed and oft-mangled bag.<br /><br />As the previous reviewer mentioned, once you start eating these, you won't miss the added fat and salt of any distributor's ""roasted"" nuts.  Since eating these natural almonds, I haven't missed the traditional ""roasted"" nut taste.  I grew up on the usual nuts, but now I find I really look forward to this new, clean taste.  For all these reasons, I recommend Blue Diamond's raw almonds.<br /><br />(However, if you still think that these almonds aren't crunchy enough for you--especially if you bought the canned nuts--you could always roast them yourself.  Put the raw almonds on a cookie sheet [you may want to line your sheet with foil or parchment paper] in a pre-heated oven at 350 degree F.  Stir them a few times to ensure they don't scorch (I would check around 6 minutes--especially if your oven is a bit temperamental [like mine]; and stir and check again before 10 minutes [because it's amazing how fast nuts can go from 'almost done' to 'scorched'--or worse--'burnt'].  Roasting them yourself still has to be much healthier than any nuts that are cooked in oil.  Remember also, if you do roast the raw almonds in the oven, please cool them completely and then refrigerate them afterward.)"
,,,,,Perfect to-go snacks,I'm completely satisfied with this purchase of individual packs of almond nuts.  Have ate about 5 bags by now and everyone is delicious with no bad nuts.  Can't think of anything bad with the whole deal.  The bag sizes are perfect for an in between meal snack and are are really healthy for you.
,,,,,Tasty and Healthy - Good for Dieting,"When I was told by my nutritionist that eating a handful of whole, natural almonds a day would help me to lose weight and get the right kind of fats and proteins implemented into my diet, I was a bit skeptical.  I was not a huge almond fan to begin with.  I don't particularly enjoy salted or roasted almonds.  Usually only the kind that come surrounded with coconut and chocolate or the kind that you get out of the nut bowl to shell around the holidays.  The Whole Natural almonds by Blue Diamond taste like they came right out of the shell and boy are they yummy.<br /><br />I like that they are a satisfying snack and I like the taste of them.  These are the ones I buy ... no added salt or anything.  Nice and fresh right out of the shell.<br /><br />5 stars."
,,,,,they are unsalted,"i'm addicted to nuts, i know it sounds funny but i am and these are no exception but i thought i'd let everybody know that they are unsalted which doesn<br />t bother me one bit but my children prefer the smokehouse ones that have salt on them. i will buy again."
,,,,,Good product but wrong description,we bought this based on what Amazon mentioned in its product description which says 100 calorie pack but this is not 100 cal pack they are infact 250 calorie pack.Nothing wrong with the item as such and not that I'm going to return it but I would prefer a 100 cal pack over a 250 cal pack. Amazon please correct the prod description.
,,,,,Raw unsalted Almonds!,"For those who remember cracking almond shells, this tastes the same.  Love that there is no salt added and perfect protein, natural snack  between meals or as a meal for people like me who always forget to eat. I've got them strategically placed to make sure something gets in during the day when I'm studying or writing.  If you prefer Blue Diamond dry roasted excessively salted almonds you probably won't like these.  I like both, just don't use salt except in baking."
,,,,,So Freaking Good!,"Whom ever came up with the idea to dip pretzels in yogurt, was either high, a genious, or the devil himself..probably all.<br /><br />Point is, these things are so freaking good! The right amount of salt and sweet on each pretzel, it's hard to stop eating them, so a word of caution, for every 8 pretzels you eat, you get 11gm of sugar, and so people trying to lose weight or in any sort of special diet, should pay extra attention when or before eating these.<br /><br />There's absolutely nothing negative to say about this product. The bags (6 of them) came well packaged and the pretzels taste fresh. I can't really give this product a low score due to its sugar content, etc., because I knew what I was buying and expected it to be this way. Hope this helps."
,,,,,Addicting,"These are great! Ridiculously addicting!<br /><br />Good Sense makes some of the best Yogurt Pretzels around. The 9 ounce bags are perfect. I keep a bag at work and with the built-in seal, they always taste fresh."
,,,,,Good flavor,"These are good, but a bit skimpy on the candy coating. The ones I get at my supermarket have a thicker layer of ""yogurt"" coating, but the store doesn't carry them that often. So I keep these on hand just in case the urge strikes and my local store is out.  I love the combination of crispy/salty pretzel with creamy yogurt-flavored candy coating."
,,,,,Delicious!,"They are soooo good!  I am so addicted to these pretzels.  I am having to control myself from eating more than a bag a day.  I  hope Amazon continues to have them and doesn't quit carrying them.  Order them now, you won't regret it, but your waist line might!  :)"
,,,,,Canine Testimonial,All I can say is that our two dogs love these things almost more than anything else. They each get one a day and very much look forward to that special time. These long lasting treats are well worth the money for us.
,,,,,Great bargain treat!,"My basenji, Lily, loves Rawhide Munchy Sticks Beef 5"" 100 Pack and Chicken, 5"" 100 Pack best, but these are a great deal and she will chew happily on these as well.  I guess she is not too picky."
,,,,,Black ants don't even get close to it,"I bought this product to get rid of black ants in my house. It did not help at all. I even tried mixing it with sugar and placing it where the ants used to go, well they just don't go anywhere close to it, it really looks like it repels the ants, instead of attracting them. I have not found yet a product that work for my ants, except the spray that kills them instantly (but I cannot spray it in the kitchen, and I have ants all around the counter top, even if it is cleaned to perfection)."
,,,,,Finally the Ants Are Gone!,"For years, I used <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000HJBKMQ"">SENORET CHEMICAL 300 ""TERRO"" LIQUID ANT BAITS BX6</a>. It worked extremely well. Within 12 hours, all ants were gone. However, my latest infestation was not responding to Terro, in fact, they were eating the liquid up, but it wasn't killing the ants. My neighborhood Hardware Supply store told me that insects could become tolerant to certain pesticides. I found the ""Safer"" product, but was skeptical. Take off the spout cover and blast a fine white powder into the cracks or places where the ants are coming through. For me, it was under two long baseboards in the kitchen. Then I swept up the excess white powder into the cracks some more and cleaned the tile of any powder. It worked instantly. Any ants that even touched the powder immediately started to wiggle and die. I have a cat, so I cleaned any excess up carefully, so she cannot get any on her paws, as it is very toxic. It's as good as Boric Acid.<br /><br />This powder claims to kills Ants, Cockroaches, Earwigs, Silverfish, Crickets, Millipedes and Centipedes. I did notice that immediately after applying this product, Silverfish started to appear, evidently sensing the chemicals. Soon, they will be gone. Do check it out. I am SO glad to be rid of those ants (they even got into my freezer where I had chocolate!)."
,,,,,Knorr Soups and Mixes Are The Best - And So Is Amazon's Price,"I love this gravy mix - much easier and less fat than making from scratch and not as salty as McCormick's or other brands.<br /><br />I use non-fat milk instead of water to make a cream gravy.  This is good stuff.  And by time you order this set of 24 and other items, there is no shipping and no tax.  The price is much less than I could get when on sale at my local supermarket."
,,,,,A Little Disappointed,"The Grape Jam, itself, is of the highest quality, and it tastes great, so I have absolutely no complaints there. However, the glass jars were poorly packaged (it was very heavy and fragile, and was insulated with just two small pillow puffs), and two of the twelve jars arrived with the seals already broken. Since I could not be sure if the food was safe to eat, I had to throw away the two jars. I would not order this product again(or anything else that comes in jars) for that reason."
,,,,,Awful.  How can they sell this in good conscience?,"This tin must have been sitting on the shelf for a decade; it was totally dried out when I opened it.  When treacle sponge pudding dries, it smells nasty and can't be reconstituted, even with water and some heat.<br /><br />Total waste of money."
,,,,,My favorite chip,"These are, hands-down, my favorite potato chips.  They are very light and flaky with a hint of vinegar that make them simply irresistible."
,,,,,organic smooth move,I like this product because it is a very fast working product.  It works every time and you know what to expect. No unexpected emergencies.  Very smooth!!
,,,,,Smooth Move Really Helps Move!,Several people recommended this tea to me when I was on a high protein diet and things got stopped up.  I do not love the taste (sort of licorice) but after adding a sweetener I liked it better.  It is effective.  Sip it in the evening.
,,,,,Fantastic Rub - nothing better in the market,"Ok Folks - listen up. For special occasions, we'll spend the big bucks and get a rack of lamb.  You're lucky today if you can even find it in the stores - it's so expensive - often at $20-40 per pound.  So, the very last thing you want to do, after spending all that money, is ruin it with the wrong flavoring. Colorado Spices, New Zealand Lamb Rub has the right blend of herbs that goes well on just about any meat.  We just used it on some fresh bluefin and yellowfin tuna and it was FANTASTIC. My 88 year old Mother, who cooks every day and is not a huge spice fan (she's used to plain, New England cooking) loves and uses the rub on chicken, lamb, and fish.  She's having me order another case and loves the individual packets - as the rub does not lose its taste or flavor and stays fresh.  This is a great product!"
,,,,,Average,"Is this hot chocolate....yes<br />Is this good hot chocolate....um, sorta<br />Is this gourmet hot chocolate....not a chance.<br /><br />In my opinion, the only advantage you get but using the Green Mountain K-cups of hot chocolate is the simplicity of using your Keurig machine to heat the water instead of using the microwave or stove-top. Other than that the finished product is comparable to any Swiss Miss or other brand of powdered instant cocoa. It actually may be worse if you use the largest setting on your machine. The largest setting makes it much too watery.<br /><br />Green Mountain needs to go back to the drawing board on this.<br /><br />3 stars because it does make hot chocolate in your Keurig without having to dirty dishes and tear open pouches, but if you're looking for good hot chocolate, keep shopping."
,,,,,Became an instant favorite!,"It is indeed a ""rich and creamy chocolaty delight"" if you use the smallest cup size on your machine.  Remember to shake the box well before using.  Some cocoa still remains in the K-cup after brewing, but regardless, you get a very satisfying cup of hot cocoa!"
,,,,,Best Hot Chocolate I've Ever Tasted... Worst Price I've Ever Seen,"I have never had any hot chocolate that tastes better than this. Not homemade, not from starbucks, not from Swissmiss... This is hands down the best I've ever had. I go through so much of this stuff because whenever friends come over, they go straight for it.<br /><br />But what happened to the price? Most k-cups run from about $0.45 - $0.65 but Amazon has these things going for $0.92. Even Bed Bath & Beyond has them cheaper than that. Bring the price back down to something reasonable and your 5-star review will return."
,,,,,great tasting product!,"This is a fantastic soy based product that's not too sweet, is very smoothe, and wonderfully chocolaty.<br />i highly recommend this."
,,,,,A small cup of chocolate flavored water,"For the price you pay and size of each cup (you can really only make the smallest size) you are getting taken with this purchase. Buy the traditional mix from any other company, you will get a better value, better taste and a richer texture. This snot a horrible mix, it tastes ok, but it is nothing more than a decent cup of chocolate flavored water. It has no thickness to it. Swiss Miss or any other grocery store hot chocolate beats it hands down.<br />All you are getting with this is convenience of using K-cups, which is not much of one to begin with.<br />Avoid it."
,,,,,Keurig Hot Chocolate Pods,"It is so watery and weak, I had to brew the smallest cup and then put in another pod to get a full cup of hot chocolate.  This makes the pods very expensive and not figure friendly.  Each pod is 60 calories, so a full cup would be 120.  Will not purchase anymore."
,,,,,Good Cocoa,Very tasty.  You do need to remove the top and scrape out the remaining cocoa to really get all of the flavor.  This is what we have had to do with every brand of cocoa we have bought.  The flavor is excellent.
,,,,,Best Hot Chocolate Ever,My wife loves this item. She will not drink any other Hot Chocolate. The K-Cup system is great!
,,,,,Green Mtn Hot Choc,"The hot chocolate has a weird flavor to it.  I will not be buying this product again, and will probably not consider any more green mountain products."
,,,,,Good for a different drink option,I recently bought a Keurig coffee maker and was looking for k-cups when I discovered this.  My daughter is a hot chocolate lover and so I decided to give this a try.  If your coffee machine has different size drink settings use smallest size setting otherwise it is too watery but when done on the lowest size setting it makes a very good cup of hot cocoa.  My daughter loves it and has it nearly every morning.  It is very convenient and if you have a Keurig coffee maker and are looking for drink alternatives to coffee this is a good choice.
,,,,,green mountain hot cocoa,"very rich chocolate taste.not too sweet,great for a cold winter evening topped with mini marshmellows. i will certainly reccomend it"
,,,,,"""It's OK"" describes this perfectly.","I originally tried this as a part of a variety pack. I'm glad I didn't buy the whole package. If you like richer hot chocolates, then you will not like this. I tried making this hot chocolate on all three settings (smaller, medium, larger cups on the three option Keurig machines). All of the options tasted too watery for me. I would often add creamer to try to substitute for the lack of flavor to them.  If this is a machine you have in your office and are looking for something different than coffee, it is, like the stars-rating claims, okay. It tastes like what it is - a mediocre hot chocolate they added to a coffee line to simply offer variety.<br /><br />Personally, I prefer to just use Swiss Miss packets and use the Keurig to heat the water. You get better taste (by a company known for hot chocolate) and the convenience of the Keurig machine. Plus, you save a lot of money."
,,,,,Not very good Hot Chocolate,I used the minimum cup size to try and maximize the chocolate taste.  This did not help but if you like a weak chocolate taste then you will like it.
,,,,,Terrible Hot Chocolate,I don't like this product at all.  Much tastier and cheaper to just use hot water and a packet of hot chocolate mix from Nestle or Swiss Miss.
,,,,,Didn't like it,"This product would be better made with milk, which of course, then would not be for the Keurig machine. There are other brands I prefer."
,,,,,Weak hot chocolate,This hot chocolate is pretty blah. Not very chocolatey and certainly not very strong. It's not the fault of the Keurig -- the Cafe Escapes Dark Chocolate is way better.
,,,,,Horrible Chocolate,"Yuck...WORST ""CHOCOLATE"" I have ever had. Save your money on this brand and find another. Doesn't even taste taste like chocolate; we threw the rest away."
,,,,,Not hot.,"I've been through two 24 cup boxes of this hot chocolate, and it isn't great.  It's not badly priced, and the first few sips are fine.  But after it sits for five minutes cooling in your cup it separates.  It ends up being watery for the most part with a bunch of chocolate mix on the bottom."
,,,,,Not so hot cocoa,"Of course the Keurig Green Mtn Hot Cocoa is the ultimate in convenience, but, frankly, the flavor is not so hot.  Best description is slightly chocolate-flavored cardboard.  Everything else about it is fine (consistency, ease of use), but G.M. should ramp up the flavor with way more chocolate."
,,,,,"It's ok, but certainly not worth the cost","I recommend this instead for the same price: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000HD0PEQ"">Swiss Miss Hot Cocoa Mix, Milk Chocolate, 16-Count Envelopes (Pack of 8)</a><br /><br />This thing falls short, I found myself adding some milk or my non-dairy creamers to my cup of this to make it taste somewhat creamy.  It more or less tastes horrible otherwise.  After I hated it, I decided to make it with a cup of hot milk, I just decided to pour it into a hot cup of milk, and it tastes so much better.  In my opinion, they need to up the powdered milk in them, or the non-dairy creamer in them.  It would improve this product so greatly.<br /><br />They are thieves nonetheless, you usually get 10 envelopes of hot cocoa that tastes better than this in the supermarket for less than five bucks, buy two for less than ten, and still be spending less than what I spent with these.  I really thought I was buying quality, this is definitely not unless I use milk which is like cheating myself and spending extra money.  I've drank common hot cocoa from supermarket straight with water that tasted way better than this.<br /><br />AVOID!"
,,,,,Cost too much...,The hot chocolate is fine but the price here is crazy.  You can get the same thing on the Keurig site for under $15.
,,,,,"Kids will be satisfied.  Adults, won't want to waste their calories.","Definitely use the smallest amount of water and be sure to shake the cup before brewing.  The kids got a kick out of making their own ""kid coffee"" but this was only after we tweaked it with less water and brewed it with 3 marshmallows on top. (The hot cocoa hitting the marshmallows releases added sugar as well as turns the marshmallows nice and mushy :)<br /><br />The rest of us don't care to waste our daily calories on something that was, in our opinion, chocolatey water.  Still, it was worth the price for the simple fact that the kiddos can come in from sledding and brew their own hot cocoa without much mess."
,,,,,My 9 YO loves them.,"I enjoy a good cup of hot chocolate on a cold day. This is okay. You can't expect much when when all you use is water. I would say it is a bit better than the instant hot chocolate packets, but not by much. What I like the best is the easy factor. I can let my 9YO make her own cup without worrying about pulling hot water out of the micro and spilling it all over while trying to mix it like you do in the packets. So for that alone its a great deal. Price is not the best, but again the convienience is key."
,,,,,most rich cup yet on keurig,"Of all the cups I've used, this has the most rich flavorful on the large setting (for my 2 size machine).  Absolutely no chocolate left in cup - came  out clean looking - and no mess left in the machine.  My machine directions recommended doing a hot water cycle through after brewing chocolate but no need with this one. YUMMMM."
,,,,,Not as good as I'd hoped,"I like my hot chocolate to have alot of ""chocolatey"" flavor. Even when I use the smallest size brewing cup the Green Mountain hot cocoa K-cups tastes watered down. I have to add my own powdered hot chocolate to give it enough flavor."
,,,,,Really bad hot chocolate,"I had high hopes for the convenience of this product.  My daughter LOVES hot chocolate. This really was a total disappointment.  I threw these kcups out.  If you use the smallest setting on your Keurig, you get 3 oz of watery hot chocolate.  Larger settings are not drinkable.<br /><br />Save your money and get cocoa packets or a good tin of hot cocoa - and take advantage of the instant hot water the keurig provides."
,,,,,Not Great,I was expecting a bit better after reading other reviews. This is about the same as any other hot chocolate made with water. I prefer making it with milk as the flavor and texture is much better. Adding milk didn't help much. I guess Mom spoiled me (good).
,,,,,Tastes great,"My 12 year old loves to make a cup of this before school every morning. The cocoa tastes wonderful and brews up nice. We add a splash of milk to cool it off and it's so good. I don't taste anything artificial, in fact the quality is great. We will bring this camping for the younger kids. With the powders we always had clumps, this brews a great cup every time and tastes like the expensive coffee shop stuff!"
,,,,,Hot chocolate K-cups,"The hot chocolate was very tasty, but pretty expensive for hot chocolate. You can buy hot chocolate K-cups in most retail stores and some grocery chains and it is the same thing for less money than advertised on here."
,,,,,Great product,"I recently bought a Keurig Coffee maker because my husband and I love our coffee and tea, but sometimes want different drinks on certain days and this coffee maker fit the bill. We both enjoy this hot cocoa as much as do our grandchildren. Likely the best hot cocoa K-cup that we have tried so far. They arrived sooner than expected and arrived as described. Happy with the service and the product.<br />Comment Comment  Permalink"
,,,,,cocoa cups,"One of the best tasting cocoa mix I have found , So easy to make just one cup for myself and the cup is<br />easy to clean with no grounds invovlved. Use with K cup lids"
,,,,,Hot Chochlate for the coffe machin,This is a great product to put in your Keurig machine.  I use is with a cup of coffee and make a mocha.
,,,,,Delicioso!,Such good hot chocolate for the K Cup brewers out there!  DO NOT pass this one up!  Is not too sweet and very chocolatey :)
,,,,,Okay hot chocolate,This product wad very weak! I couldn't even make out that it was supposed to be hot chocolate. Will never buy again a waste of money!
,,,,,Excellent product,These are very good tasting and very fast making drinks.  The convene e of having a cup of hot chocolate in seconds and have it taste good is such a plus.
,,,,,"Quick, Easy and Tasty","The local auto shop offers this free to it customers. I've tried it twice and liked it both times. Perhaps, if I had to pay for it, I might not love the price, but I would still enjoy the flavor."
,,,,,Hot Cocoa,This product was not very good at all. It did not have the taste or consistency of the wanted beverage.
,,,,,expensive,"I thought that getting hot cocoa would be a nice change, but after having my machine get clogged up, needing to clean the needles, and then putting a rinse brew after each cup is made, I've found it faster to stick with the packet of instant mix and heat water in the microwave."
,,,,,Wilco,"This cocoa is very good. I love it, so does my son. I actually like to mix half coffee with this cocoa, very tasty. And my son likes the flavor ,and the fact that it is low in carbs."
,,,,,Chocolate Delight,"Whole family loves this hot chocolate. We went through the entire box in less than a week. It is smooth, creamy, chocolate delight. And if you combine it with a k-cup of coffee it makes a perfect cafe mocha! Must buy more, more, more..."
,,,,,I love CocoaWhen I,When I got my coffee maker there were only two cocoa cups in the mix of coffee.  How delighted I was for Amazon to offer 24<br />  cup purchases.  Really great idea!
,,,,,"Agree, watered down & overpriced Hot Chocolate","Very disappointed in this.  Heed the bad reviews.  I am now at the lowest amount of brewing and it still tastes watered down.  Need to dump some Swiss Miss Hot Chocolate in there to give it flavor and that point, what was the purpose.  With the product already being overpriced (shop elsewhere)as it was and tasting watered down; it just wasn't worth it.  Skip it!  Maybe a different brand will be better."
,,,,,Yuck! Chocolate flavored water is what you get. Not good at all!,"This is some of the worst stuff I've ever tried to drink. It's even worse than that awful stuff that comes out of those machines where the cup drops down and fills it. I tried it on the various cup size settings with my Keurig machine and it just goes from bad to horrible when going from the larger size to the smallest.<br /><br />It's a complete waste of money.<br /><br />I just tried another brand that's similar and it's no good either. If you like chocolate water, buy these. If you have it in mind that you are buying ""Hot Chocolate"" with a milky or creamy flavor... that's not what this stuff is.<br /><br />Yuck!"
,,,,,Not much flavor,"Even though the little ones liked this product, I thought it was bland and not much flavor to it.  I will not buy more of these."
,,,,,$26.99?,"This time, forget ordering through Amazon.  You can get the same product, 24 K-Cups for $12.75 at Big Cat or for $14.80 at Keurig.  These prices are a rip off."
,,,,,Too weak,I used the small cup setting and even opened up the cap and scraped the excess mix out of the cup and it is still very weak tasting.
,,,,,yummy!,"I am diabetic and I don't like artificial sugar, but I really like this hot chocolate.  Sweet enough and also has enough chocolate flavor.  I love it."
,,,,,Alternate Use,"I love this cocoa. I place it in my Kurig with 1/2 C of water, make the cocoa and add another 1/2 hot milk...so creamy, great taste. It is still good with water but the milk adds a creamy texture..YUM"
,,,,,Not so Chocolately.,"I would not order these K-cups again.  Maybe I'm spoiled with Godiva hot chocolate, but I think Swiss Miss hot chocolate has more chocolately flavor than these K-cups and I wouldn't waste my money on these.  It comes out a pinkish color that is not appetizing at all."
,,,,,Good Hot Cocoa - Recommended,"The Green Mountain Hot Cocoa is a good choice for a nice quick cup Hot Chocolate from our <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000AQPMHA"">Keurig B-40 B40 Elite Gourmet Single-Cup Home-Brewing System</a>. Here are my observations:<br /><br />+ Good on ""Small Cup"" size, a little weak on the ""Large Cup"" setting<br />+ Shakeup the K-Cup before using (a good tip from another reviewer)<br />+ My wife and kids really enjoy it with peppermint Coffeemate flavoring added<br /><br />Recommended!<br /><br />CFH"
,,,,,Not so good,"I LOVE Green Mountain coffee.  I use it all the time for my k cups.  I got a sample of the Green Mountain Hot Cocoa and thought it would be the best.  I actually threw it out.  I tried several times to drink it.  It tasted bitter and like chemicals.  I have tried samples of the other brands of hot cocoa and this by far was the worst.  I was so surprised because I adore their coffee.  I personally would not recommend this.  Maybe it is the soy I don't know.  It just tasted very, very odd.  I still would recommend their coffees though!  Just to be fair I did add chocolate redi whip.  But I add that to all of my hot cocoa and it always tastes good."
,,,,,These are horrible.,"Even after shaking the cup and only using 6 ounces of water, this ""hot cocoa"" (pretty sure there's not a lick of real chocolate in it) still tastes horrible."
,,,,,watered down hot chocolate,"Received a Keurig brewer for Christmas and also received a pack of this hot ""chocolate"" with it.  We made some after sledding one day for myself, my husband and 2 kids (6 and 10) all thought it was terrible.  We almost returned the Keurig brewer because of it.  I have found that I am enjoying black coffee with my Keurig, but we will never buy any type of hot chocolate k cups again."
,,,,,Problem with making the cocoa,I have tried 4 times to make cocoa with this product.  Twice it appeared to plug the coffee maker and would only provide about one once of cocoa.  The other two times the product worked correctly.  I do not think it is the coffee maker problem because it has made dozens of cups of coffee with no problems.  So I can not recommend this product.
,,,,,Great Product & Service,I received my product in a timely fashion and was exactly what I expected! I would recommend this to anyone!
,,,,,Just like from when I was a kid...,"I remember going with my mother to Payless drug store, which has turned into CVS Pharmacy here on the West Coast.  Payless used to sell these in the 80s and while the packaging is different now, the candy is still the same.  Boy are these good.  My mom got me hooked on them, and on the Milk and Honey ones too, and I just love them now just as much as when I was 10!  I am so glad to find these, the honey inside is very good, and the outside tastes like lovely solid honey.  I love ordering this larger pack since I can just grab a bar and tuck it into my purse and and eat these as a light snack or to freshen my breath.  If you love putting honey on toast, or just eating it out of the jar, you will probably like these.  The honey inside is a light honey, not dark just in case that matters to you."
,,,,,Just like I remembered!,"I remembered these honey candies from when I was a child, and ordered a box.  They were exactly like I remembered--great honey flavor and liquid center.  I shared them with friends and family, and am ordering my second box. I also like them for when I have a cold or allergies and have that throat tickle. This is the hard candy you'll find in my purse!"
,,,,,GREAT CANDY TREATS,I have been looking for these great candies for years.  Every now and then I would come across them in a candy store.  It is so nice to know I can now order them on line at Amazon and always have Honees on hand to enjoy and share with others.  I love the honey filling. Try them. JANE
,,,,,Glad I found these again.,"I had not seen these candies in my neighborhood for a long time.  I developed a cough and nothing was working.  I tried to find these because I just had a feeling they would work.  I could not find them anywhere, so I searched Amazon, and viola, here they are.  They are a great candy and the drop of honey inside really soothes the throat.  My whole family loves them and everyone I offer them to try like them a lot.  I think Amazon will get a lot of new orders for these."
,,,,,Can't get enough,I first found these at a local deli but they freqently were out of stock so I was thrilled to find them on Amazon. These are very satisfying and I have great fun introducing friends and co-workers to them.<br /><br />I also frequently recommend them to people with sore throats or coughs. Honey is an antibacterial agent and very soothing so these make an excellent lozenge in addition to being a wonderful candy.<br /><br />I bought a case so I can hand them out to people having a bad day. :)
,,,,,Rich Honey Goodness,"If you miss and crave the Honey Pine Brothers cough drops, you are going to LOVE the Honees Honey candy. I also love that they are imported from Italy. It's nice to see something other that ""Made in China""!"
,,,,,Just like I remembered.,"Been looking for these for 15 years, so glad I finally found them, Just like I remembered from my childhood. :-)"
,,,,,Great candy,I love these. They're just the right amount of sweetness and I really enjoy the fact that each piece is individually wrapped.
,,,,,Sweet as honey,LOVE THEM !<br />It took me forever to find these.<br />Everyone who I have given them to to try has loved them & want MORE!<br />Shipping is on the high side though.
,,,,,Perfect,Just a perfect transaction. I can't buy this candy anywhere in my town so this was a great find.
,,,,,"Very good rub, but don't buy it at $25!","All Tom Douglas rubs are great, but I have no idea why they're listed for $25+ here. You can buy them for about $6 in Seattle grocery stores or at Tom Douglas' website."
,,,,,The best cereal we every had!  Please keep up the good work.,This cereal is awesome and our very favorite of all of the Nature's Path Cereals.  We love it and buy it in multiple boxes!
,,,,,The Price-ARE YOU KIDDING,"I just bought a 35 oz box of this at Sam's Club yesterday for $7.87.  AND the reason I looked it up on the internet today is because it is NOT GOOD.  I checked and the expiration date on the box says best if used by Feb 16, 2011.  I bought it Jan 20, 2011.  WTH  The raisins in it are so hard they could break your teeth.  The flavor is unimpressive.  The packaging was so hard to open I had to get scissors and then use a zip lock bag because my attempts at opening it, no matter how carefully I tried, caused me to rip the bag.  I doubt I will need to worry about keeping it fresh as I'll probably not eat it again AND I don't think it's very fresh to begin with. YEEEUUUKKKKK  and what's with this price?  Is it a joke?"
,,,,,Excellent Quality and Value,"I really enjoyed this product. It tastes good and is very close to the Russian or Iranian versions. Also, the service and quick delivery were an added bonus.  I would highly recommend this product."
,,,,,"""Malossol""?","Guys, do you know what ""malossol"" means in Russian?<br />""Lightly salted"".<br />This particular caviar was actually over-salted quite a bit.<br />Other than that its a very good tasting caviar (I guess you can blame a puddlefish for that), very close to Russian Sturgeon's caviar."
,,,,,So nice to get a piece of home,Received this item as expected - if anyone has had peanut porridge - this is  as close as it gets to Jamaica !
,,,,,Good Deal!,"Good deal, better than buying at the local craft store and even better than the online cake supply stores.  Item arrived as promised and will be useful when making Spider and Turkey cupckaes during the fall baking season."
,,,,,Sliced Hard Chicken Hot Dogs for Cats!,"This product does not smell very well to me.  In fact, I have to use a fork to ""tenderized"" the pieces for my old kitty cat."
,,,,,cat lover,my cat loves this  first time I have found a cat food that he will eat and every time i go in the kitchen he thinks<br />its time to eat
,,,,,Good Cat Food Without Smelly Cans,"What self-respecting cat isn't a picky eater?  I've never met any.  My cat likes Whiskas Choice Cut foods mainly for the gravy, and sometimes for the meat.  Omar the Magnificent and Wonderful likes both  the Beef in Gravy or Tuna.  Truth be told his dry crunchie is really his go-to choice, but he's that way with all prepared moist foods.  If you ask him his true five-star preference is meat caught fresh in  the garden.  Let's skip the details, you don't want to know.... Let's just say that Omar (M&W) is on the job!<br /><br />I personally prefer Whiskas foods in pouches because Omar is OK with allowing any remaining food to be left in pouch when stored in fridge, rather than having to transfer it from a can to a glass container.  (Come on you all have cats that expect you to do this!)  Pouches are easy to dispose of too.  Just rinse and trash.  You aren't messing with storing smelling cans and trips to the recycling center."
,,,,,Good Cat Food,"This Cat food is very delicious that my cat loves the product. Every time I open the pouch, my cat will come wanting to eat it. Please try this product with your cat if you have not done so yet. It is good for cats that are picky eaters."
,,,,,Happy Cat,"My cat will only eat the Whiskas Choice cuts with beef.  My local stores quit carrying this product and I bought any cat food similar to it, regardles of price.  My cat ate only dry food for two months or more.  He lost weight that he can't afford to lose. I am so happy that I found this Whiskas item on Amazon."
,,,,,My cat's favorite flavor,"It is hard to get just one falvor of this product. I was very happy to order 48 pouches. However, when they arrived the out side of the box label was turkey in gravy but they contained mixed grill instead. I could not return but Amazon gave me a total refund. If you are ordering this, wait about 10 days (after 9/1/12)so you don't receive Mixed Grill like I did. It was labeled wrong from the factory so it will take them a while to get new shippments."
,,,,,They run me over to get their Cod and Shrimp...,"Another popular seafood flavor that Sophie and Samson won't share.  When I bend down to place their bowls in front of them, they are on their back legs trying to get to it before I can put the bowl on the floor.  They act like they have not been fed in days. Nothing will disturb them - not even their favorite UPS man who brings them treats.  Can't beat Amazon prices !!!"
,,,,,Cats love it!!!,Every day is Thanksgiving at Sophie and Sam's dinner mat when they receive their Whiskas Turkey and Giblets in gravy.  They are quick to devour it and clean each other right after eating (I know they hope to pick up a piece hidden in the fur!).  I only buy from Amazon because of their awesome prices!
,,,,,My cats go crazy!,"Both my cats love Whiskas in any flavor.  My female cat, Sophie, is usually the one that takes little bits until it is gone.  When she hears me tearing the Whiskas Pouches, she flys into the kitchen and waits patiently for her food.  She never lifts her head up from the bowl until every piece is gone.  She will then sit by her brother, Samson, to get more food if he leaves.  After he gulps his food down and see's his Sissy waiting for some of his, he will tease her by taking one piece of his food out with his paw, look at her and when she trys to take it away he puts his paw on it and scoops it into his mouth. i can always count on empty bowls when I buy Whiskas.  The price at Amazon is more reasonable than the grocery store."
,,,,,Cats love it,"Cats love this stuff. One pouch doesn't go far so it is more of a treat than a meal (unless you feed according to recommendations on box).<br /><br />Pouches are easy to open and a little messy, always seems to get on my fingers.<br /><br />My cats come running if they see me reach for the pouch or they hear the sound of flicking it back and forth before opening.<br /><br />All the yucky stuff (think fast food for cats) must be addicting because they seem to listen for the very quiet sound of the rustling pouch.  We give pouches as a treat."
,,,,,They lovbe it,"They LOVE it, I give my kitties (Silki and Tuffy) half a pouch each as a mid day snack to keep thier bird terrorizing energy level up.I gave it 4 stars only because it's a little messy to tear open sometimes, and I don't use scissors because you have to clean them afterwards. Oh Well, they DO love it."
,,,,,Tasty food for a picky cat,"Our beloved Bengal kitty, Isabel, is 13 years old and suffering from kidney stones, which are inoperable in felines. For years she lived on dry food but began to shun it as her health declined. Our vet ultimately advised feeding her whatever she'd eat: ""She might as well be as happy as possible in her declining years.""<br /><br />So, we offered her one soft food after another. She turned up her nose at the expensive, vet-sold brands and repeatedly rejected one national brand and flavor after another. Finally, to her gustatory delight (and our great relief), she made her choice: this particular Wiskas version is the ONLY kind she'll eat day in and day out. It MUST be Whiskas with the turkey AND GIBLETS in GRAVY. The gravy seems to add a certain flavor and texture she can't resist.<br /><br />We surmise that, like humans, our pets have food preferences linked to palate-pleasing aroma and taste. This Whiskas is the one that rings the bell for our Izzy. No, it's not the best choice for managing kidney stones, but she's got to eat. (So you won't worry that we're ignoring her renal problems, she's on daily medication and is doing quite well.)<br /><br />It's not an inexpensive cat food, but its packaging is very convenient and space-saving. The Amazon auto-ship program is a life saver. The cartons always arrive on time, and the per-package bulk rate is lower than the price of small quanities. Also, our local Target was the only place we could find this exact variety, and now the store no longer carries it. (Remember, our cat demands GIBLETS and GRAVY and accepts no substitutes).<br /><br />Give autoship a try. The price is better, and you can easily adjust the quantity and frequency of shipment or cancel altogether."
,,,,,They like em'....they like em'.,"My finicky cats are difficult to please particularly when it comes to their food.<br />Boy,....was I finally RELIEVED...when they chowed down on these!!!"
,,,,,My cat loves Whiskas Beef in Gravy,My cat will eat NOTHING but Whiskas Beef in Gravy cat food. Being able to order and receive it through the mail has been a blessing. I get it for my mom because she cannot drive to the store because of her health issues. Its great not to have the extra burden of getting cat food. Her cat is her companion through hard times.
,,,,,My cats come running,"I have two big cats that are over 15 lbs. each.  For breakfast, I give them each a packet of Whiskas Choice cuts.  They inhale the food in about 2-3 minutes.  This food doesn't have that catfood smell that most canned foods have.  There's a lot of gravy so the price is pretty high considering the amount of liquid.  <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0012KIB8K"">Friskies Cat Food Favorites, 6-Flavor Variety Pack, 3-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 24)</a> are more expensive and very similar.<br /><br />I have these on Subscribe and Save so the price is pretty good.  Based upon my cats reaction, they really like this food."
,,,,,"Poor quality ingredients, but my cat loves it.",I bought this product because my older cat stopped eating the wellness dry and wet food I usually fed her.  She likes this food and she begs for it every morning and evening when it is time for her meal.  The ingredients are not quality ingredients but this food is keeping my kitty satisfied.
,,,,,Horrible stuff but it's all the cat will eat!!,I adopted a 12 yo cat from a woman who had a premature baby with a lung condition.  She's skinny and will eat very little besides Wiskas.  I think it's Soilent Green for cats.  I would never feed this to her if she would eat anything else.  I don't think she's long for this world!!
,,,,,Bought for my wonderful mother,"My mom had gotten some of the dollar store knockoffs - they weren't bad and they certainly were cheap, but the look on her face when I gave her these was worth every penny.<br /><br />Although, I think she's managed to eat most of them in a couple of weeks and still stays 120 lbs... LOL"
,,,,,Pumpkins!!!  Lots of Pumpkins!!!!,"As you can see by the pic I posted, you get your moneys worth!!  I am very happy with my purchase!!  They are exactly as described and delivered fast!!  I have already purchased another one!!  :)"
,,,,,Fantastic cheese,Great cheese. Wonderful flavor. Made my spaghetti & meatballs better than it's ever been & made the lasagna even better. Fast delivery.
,,,,,Adds a great punch of flavor!,"I use this low-sodium seasoning blend all of the time. I just add it to a dish at the end of preparation for a punch of flavor. The roasted garlic is milder than fresh, so you don't have to worry about the usual raw garlic flavor, which makes it perfect to sprinkle over soups, salads, baked potatoes, dips, etc. It has it onion, red and green peppers, and additional ingredients in it.<br /><br />5/6/12 Still an excellent product, but not worth the new price. I will not be reordering."
,,,,,great,"This product is the absolute best for bar-b-queing meat, the roasted garlic turns the trick. It's a little pricey (about twice as much) but Amazon did have a nice discount that makes it more palatable."
,,,,,Best Seasoning!,My husband has used this seasoning for years.  We bought it through Sam's then could never find it again. I thought why not look on Amazon and as usual there it was. I love this site!  The bottles are large and well worth the money. It's just the best seasoning!
,,,,,Great spice,"This is a great spice for almost anything. We use it on meats, in soups and it makes a spicey garlic bread. We have been using it for some time and will continue to use it."
,,,,,Great stuff,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001EQ5536"">Durkee Roasted Garlic Seasoning Blend, 21-Ounce Containers (Pack of 2)</a><br />This Seasoning turns any meat or vegetable into a tasty treat."
,,,,,excellent flavor enhancer,"I use this on steamed/simmered vegetables (greens, peas and beans,) roasted meat and poultry and in cold meat salads ( chicken,ham,turkey and tuna. )<br />It adds just the right combo of flavor with or without other spices you may want to add. Very glad amazon offers this 2-pack on the subscribe and save program."
,,,,,Great mixture of spice,"I have been looking for this.  I had one from SAM sometimes ago.  When I returned to SAM, they do not have it anymore.  SAM is always a hit or miss.<br /><br />I search the web and found it in Amazon.  I am so glad to find it.  I used this every where from stir fried vegitable to bake fish, grill steak, chicken and shrimp.  It taste great!  It is just the right amount of simple spice with low sodium."
,,,,,Just Glorious!,Wonderful product!  Thank goodness Amazon has this as it is hard to find in my area.  A little goes a long way.
,,,,,Great things comes in small packages,This was the first time I had quail. It was done for passover.The quail was a great addition the to lamb .
,,,,,great cup of coffee,"I'm writing this review on behalf of my husband who is the actual Starbucks VIA decaf Italian Roast coffee drinker. Because of some health concerns he has been drinking only decaf coffee for well over a year. He recently had problems after having a couple cups of what was supposed to be decaf at a restaurant. We believe regular coffee was brewed in what was supposed to be the decaf pot. At a recent visit to our ""local"" Starbucks, which is 90 miles away, I discovered the VIA decaf Italian Roast and bought a three pack for him to try. He likes strong, good coffee and was impressed after his first cup. He took two packages to a meeting last night so he could have coffee, too, when the rest of the group was having real coffee and drank both of them and came home wishing he had more of the VIA. I've placed a pre-order for the 50 pack available through Amazon and from now on when we travel, he will be carrying a supply of decaf Italian Roast VIA with him so he will know for sure the coffee he is drinking is decaf. It seems expensive until you look at what you would pay for a cup of mediocre coffee at any restaurant."
,,,,,"Love it, but pricey...","I love this stuff.  There isn't an instant coffee out there that's anywhere near this good.  This isn't even in the same category as any other instant.  It actually tastes like real coffee!  Shocking, but true.  It's (no lie) almost as good as freshly brewed Starbucks.  It's also great for iced coffee and for adding to smoothies and other recipes that call for a coffee kick.  However, the stuff is so darned expensive that I feel foolish buying it.  Unfortunately, it has to be a special splurge when my budget allows."
,,,,,Great flavor and so easy to prepare,I would rate Starbucks ready brew coffee quite high.  They are very easy to use and I like the flavor a lot.  I use them at work where I only want one cup of coffee and hate to have to use and wash my whole coffee pot.
,,,,,Awesome Instant coffee!,I am a major coffee drinker. I love this coffee. It is my favorite instant coffee. You can't even tell it's instant. I recommend this to anyone who likes coffee and would enjoy the conveinence of having it ready in an instant!
,,,,,Delicious Starbucks Decaf!,"I love Starbucks VIA!!  Nice to have around when you don't want to make a pot of coffee and you don't want to spend $100+ to get a K-cup machine.  There is a slight amount of grit to the coffee from the micro-ground beans mixed in with the instant crystals, however the taste is worth it and not really bothersome.  I wished Starbucks would make more Decaf varieties and more local grocery stores carried it."
,,,,,Delicious!!!! Great for Breastfeeding mommies!,"I'm nursing and miss having coffee so much!<br /><br />I heat up skim milk in the microwave, pour some agave and a pack of Starbucks VIA decaf.<br />It tastes soooo good like a latte!"
,,,,,Starbucks Decaf Instant,"If Starbucks had a Decaf Tassimo, I'd pass this up.  Howeever, they do not.  So I use it to make ice coffee.  Pretty good, although I would have preferred another drak roast over Italian Roast."
,,,,,Wish There Were More Decaf Options,"LOVE this VIA product. After a pregnancy filled with morning sickness I wasn't sure I'd ever get my taste back for coffee, but my baby wasn't too old before that old craving came back. But I didn't want to drink high-octane stuff as a nursing mom so was mainly drinking decaf hot tea. When I found these on sale I decided to give it a try ... I'm glad I did. I've moved on to making pots of Dunkin Decaf at home for everyday drinking, but I love these VIA for travel or just an afternoon cuppa. I do wish there were more options in decaf flavors."
,,,,,Better than a lot of brewed coffees,"I wanted to drink coffee again, but cannot take caffeine.  I am very pleased with the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003QBCUR6"">Starbucks VIA Ready Brew Decaf Italian Roast Coffee by Starbucks Coffee</a>.  Good taste, no noticeable caffeine, and lots easier to make than brewing.  And its fairly easy to make iced coffee as well."
,,,,,Just like home...,"We live out of the country and if you can believe it... there are NO STARBUCKS anywhere near us.  When friends come to visit us, we ask them to bring us a supply of VIA Ready Brews.  It's almost as good as the freshly brewed.  It has a great aroma and big taste.  We love it!"
,,,,,Actually tasty!,I recommend using half water and half skim milk. I usually mix 5 oz water with 5 oz skim milk and heat in the micro for two minutes.  Add the packet and sugar or sweetener.  Great for a quick cup of coffee without the hassle of cleaning the machine.
,,,,,Very flavorful for instant coffee,"I bought this to keep in my desk at work, as our coffee is pretty bad! As long as you don't use too much water (anything over 8 oz), this makes a fast flavorful cup. I much prefer this to Sanka, the other instant alternative offered at work."
,,,,,Via Starbucks!,"Great and simple product. Is replacing my k-cups and goes with me everywhere. Simple, fast, convenient, affordable and so much better than most products out there. You wonder how long before there is some serious competition."
,,,,,Surprisingly Awesome,I was a huge skeptic when this first came out but no longer.  I can't get over how good this instant coffee tastes.  It's better than what I can grind and brew myself.  I have these on my desk at work now for making decaf ice coffee in the afternoons.  It costs 1/4 of what they'd charge me at the store and I can get decaf.  Awesome.  I am truly shocked how good this coffee is.<br /><br />I just wish they sold it in large containers for making full pots.
,,,,,Nothing like the real cup of coffee at Starbucks,Don't waste your money. Buy the real cup of coffee and spend the time and money at a coffee shop.
,,,,,"To each their own, but my favorite!","Despite the other review, this is the best BBQ sauce I've ever had.  It's a mustard based sauce, so if that's not your thing, move on.  It's not really that spicy (used to be called Habanero sauce), in fact, that would be my only complaint.  As much I love shopping Amazon, buy this direct from their website if you're going to order 6 bottles or more, it's cheaper ($55/12).  It's great on pulled pork and burgers.  Try it!"
,,,,,Bile juice,This is the very worse BBQ suace I have ever tasted and bought. I saw the man v Food  show which featured the stomach bile tasting thin sauce and then bought it ...wow  Texas really doesn't know BBQ sauce.
,,,,,has corn in it,"We fed this to our bulldog when she was a puppy, and at first she did wonderful. Then the corn and preservatives took their toll.... She was itching and had a chronic ear infection and her face had a terrible yeasty smell ALL the time. She licked her paws constantly and scratched her face raw on any surface she could find. Then she started vomiting. We HAD to change her food. Now she eats a fully carnivorous raw diet and is thriving! No more itching, no more ear infections, no more yeast, no more paw licking."
,,,,,Great,"Great food, my Lab puppy loves it, veterinarian recommended<br /><br />free shipping with amazon prime / no tax / 20% less than petco = priceless"
,,,,,Great Product!,"My dogs love this food & do well on it,the quality & price are decent for the Royal Canin brand. The kibble is small enough for smaller breeds. I recommend this if you can't afford the pricier ""breed specific"" formulas. I hope Amazon can keep this size on hand for the price with free shipping. I will definately keep buying it!"
,,,,,Nothing But The Best Dry Food,"I have two Australian Cattle Dogs VERY high energy breeds, I have tried all foods from solid gold to Canidae and have had mixed results with both of those foods,I have tried the regular Royal Canin medium breed and both of my medium sized dogs (50 lbs) seem to like the puppy food. There waste deposits seem to have gone down and there coats and behaviors have never been better (both on royal canin for 2 years), no vet bills, beautiful coats and best of all the dogs attitudes have never been better."
,,,,,great puppy food,"royal canine is a great product Jake loves it he is now 3 months<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIY9KW"">Royal Canin Dry Dog Food, Medium Puppy 32 Formula, 30-Pound Bag</a> old and 35  pounds boxer puppy"
,,,,,Love this dog food and so does our puppy!,Great food! We have a english bulldog and he loves his food! Healthy for him.. it was suggested by the breeder we bought him from.
,,,,,Good quality dogfood w/ fast delivery,"I was very pleased with the shipping of this item. When I thought it was going to arrive after my food was empty, it had actually come 2 days prior.  My dog couldn't be happier"
,,,,,A wonderful product.,"Like another reviewer here, I use this granulated honey for my tea and I use it for my coffee.  It is oh so much better than white sugar.  I had been in the habit of using the unprocessed sugar, which was good, but this is so much better.<br /><br />This product does indeed give backed goods a bit of a different, in a positive way, flavor and I use it with cookies.  I buy my granulate honey at a local health food shop and the price here, even if you consider the shipping, is quite competitive.  The other advantage is that this stuff is becoming more and more popular in my area and our local shops are forever running out of it.  It is nice to know I have a reliable source.<br /><br />Highly recommend this product."
,,,,,Great for tea!,"I love this stuff! I keep it next to the brown & white sugar in the cupboard. I use it in home-made bread.<br /><br />My kids like it mixed with milk, although it doesn't easily dissolve. I let them make a little honey-milk on the nights they have trouble falling asleep because I heard that both milk & honey have something in them that makes you sleepy. Anyway it seems to get them back into bed pretty well!<br /><br />Best use is for tea. I drink tea at work & it is very easy to take this to work with me in a little container. And it's a whole lot better than white sugar."
,,,,,OMG!!  I will be buying more.,"This is wonderful. If I could have given the honey granules a 10 I would have. It tastes great, no sticky mess. My grandkids say that the taste is ""magic"" in their hot cereals."
,,,,,There's only one BIG problem,"The one BIG problem being that they don't always send you the right product and when that happens there is no way to return it for the right product. I ordered 2 lbs of the honey and received brown sugar instead. When I tried to return it for the right product (the honey) I got absolutely NO RESPONSE. None. I sent countless emails, but nothing. It is a great product with a great taste, but the company is a little dodgy, so be careful."
,,,,,great product,"Product was shipped ultra quick - USPS priority. Packaged in no-tamper bag. This granulated honey is great in oatmeal, cooking, coffee, tea, on cereal, etc. It's sweeter than sugar. I give seller an A+++++"
,,,,,Love this stuff!,"I use this as a replacement in recipes that call for sugar, makes wonderful cakes and cookies!  I have never had any problem with my orders."
,,,,,excellent product,"sky is the limit with this stuff. i've used it in rubs, marinades, baked goods & salads. it is a permanent addition to my spice rack."
,,,,,Expensive considering the tiny amount provided,I wanted to give this product a try as the liquid honey crystallized in a few weeks during the winter months. This small 8 oz. packet does clump together a lot more than other sweeteners so there is less of an advantage over using honey in a jar and spooning out the crystallized honey.<br /><br />For the price I consider it a poor value. Taste is OK but nothing to rave about and not as good as with regular unprocessed honey.
,,,,,Tasty alternative to Cane Sugar,"This Honey Granules is tasty and a welcome alternative to Cane Sugar. I use it in my morning oats (steel cut oats), Bird's custard and Tea. One or two teaspoonfuls go a long way. It is better stored in the refrigerator. Consider it in place of over-processed store bought cane sugar."
,,,,,Good Stuff,I wanted to try this type of powered Honey for my tea it is very good and a great alternative to Sugar works very well in Tea.
,,,,,loved it,this honey was very good used it in cookie recipe like brown sugar and the cookies came out delicious. Thank you
,,,,,Fabulous unique product...,I like to use honey a lot but sometimes it is difficult to use liquid gooey honey.  Honey doesn't produce the negative effects in my system that sugar does.  I use this granulated honey in many foods that need sweetened; and even in my coffee. It is great tasting and works great.
,,,,,HORRAY FOR PEPPERS,"THIS IS A WONDERFUL PRODUCT. USE IT IN EGGS, MEATLOAF, SPAGHETTI SAUCE, EVERYTHNG. I'VE EATEN THEM OUT OF THE JAR.:o)))"
,,,,,Love this product,"When I need to cook some onions and peppers without having to saut&eacute; them first, this is perfect. They taste great and add so much delicious flavour to food."
,,,,,As expected,"I cannot find this product in my local stores, but did find them on Amazon.  Price is what I expected from my last grocery store purchase.  Only thing I wished they used the USPS ""flat rate"" shipping.  Otherwise I'm completely satisfied and will purchase again in the future."
,,,,,A Family Favorite,"Although I'm a little embarrassed touting something so processed (maybe it's a reaction to a childhood eating peanut butter my parents hand-ground at their local health food store) I have to say I really like this stuff.  It is also the only peanut butter my 10 year old daughter will eat (can't get any other brands past her).  The reduced fat aspect of it may not save calories but it gives the product a slightly sweet taste, and for some reason only the Skippy brand maintains its smooth texture--every other brand I've tried gets tough or grainy patches in it.  This product is getting harder to find in supermarkets (and when I do find it it's at a premium price), so the availability on Amazon is great."
,,,,,we will eat it however....,"Give yourself the gift of buying the regular skippy.  Although this gives you less fat, there is a distinct taste difference.  We will eat what we purchased but I am still in disbelief that such a minimial amount of fat reduction in a product really makes a great PB turn into a yuckky PB..."
,,,,,peanutty-licious,"This is my favorite pb.  It is really full of peanut taste, and I feel that it is reduced fat because there is less oil added."
,,,,,"What Can I Say? It's Good, Creamy Peanut Butter","This is just like the smooth, reduced fat Skippy peanut butter you would buy in stores.<br /><br />These are the ""small"" 16.3 ounce size, but the price is a good deal - or at least it was when I bought it.<br /><br />Sure, even reduced fat peanut butter is not the healthiest thing on earth, but it's certainly healthier than some of the alternatives."
,,,,,the best PB ever,Me and family love this brand of Peanut Butter. Cant stand the tast of others. And enjoy the free sjhipping from amazon.
,,,,,"Yummy, but hard to spread...","I like creamy peanut butter, however this is hard to spread because part of the oils are kept out to make it reduced fat. Kinda makes for a messy sandwich."
,,,,,The Best!,This peanut butter is the best and only peanut butter I will eat. I refuse any other kind. I particularly enjoy the skippy reduced fat because A) it is a tad healthier and B) it has a sweeter taste to it. My local grocery store no longer carries it so I was ecstatic to see it available on Amazon and in bulk! =D
,,,,,"Tasty, and with reduced fat?  Awesome!","I am a peanut butter fanatic, and I get excited every time Amazon offers a bulk-order of peanut butter at a low price.  I use peanut butter as a mid-day energy boosting snack -- straight off the spoon and without any other food to supplement it.  It's just THAT good to me.<br /><br />I was more than happy with Skippy Reduced Fat Creamy.  I like the smooth texture it has, and it has a great mouth-feel that isn't the thick ""stick to the roof of my mouth"" kind that requires a glass of milk to be able to eat.  I don't feel that Skippy reduced the flavor from its original peanut butter along with the fat to make this product -- it tastes delicious and satisfying.<br /><br />If you're a peanut butter lover like me, please look out for the fantastic prices Amazon has on Skippy Reduced Fat Creamy -- you won't regret buying it, and the reduced fat intake is a bonus!"
,,,,,Top of the line so far as reduced fat peanut butters,"I started buying Skippy several years ago after reading a number of consumer reviews that gave it a top ranking. The one that stuck with me the most was a polling of 12 year-olds, who gave Skippy peanut butter a resounding recommendation for its tastes and texture. In writing this review, I went back and checked to see what more adult reviewers think. I'm taking the liberty of quoting from the CookingLightly website so far as its review of Creamy:<br /><br />""The roasted peanuts on the ingredient list are evident in the heady aroma and balanced flavor. Testers thought this sample was a touch oily, but spread the best...Makes the perfect peanut butter sandwich, but can turn into a savory dressing when mixed with soy, vinegar, and crushed red pepper to serve over sugar snap peas, broccoli, or a stir-fry. For a sweet version, mix with honey and mayonnaise and use as a fruit salad dressing. Mix with chile paste with garlic (sambal oelek) or sriracha for an easy sauce for roast meats.""<br /><br />This is my opinion, too, and while the above review was for the regular Creamy, it applies in my opinion to the reduced fat version just as well. I love this peanut butter. I know that Jif and Peter Pan are also often ranked highly, but Skippy is by far my preference.<br /><br />While I use it on sandwiches, I often just eat a tablespoon or two as a quick snack and source of protein. It is so good in this role that I gave it to a diabetic friend. She uses it in lieu of orange juice if she's starting to feel hypoglycemic. The peanut butter stays with her longer and has a smoother effect.<br /><br />I will note that some nutritionists are now raising questions abou he value of reduced fat peanut butter. They have two ASIC points:<br /><br />1. The process of removing fat is n fact removing monounsaturated oils which are healthy for us.<br /><br />2. To compensate for any loss of taste, manufacturers are putting back in sugars and oils which may not e so healthy.<br /><br />My rating is based on taste and texture. I'm not taking a position in nutritional debates but do suggest that you check these matters out separately if you are concerned about this kind of issue."
,,,,,Great bargain!,I have always been a fan of Skippy peanut butter and I love that Amazon is offering buying in bulk at a great price! It is cheaper here than what I find in the store. I highly recommend it as long as you have a place you can store the extra cans.
,,,,,Not worth it...,"I bought this by accident, then decided to give it a chance.  Not worth it, I would rather have less real peanut butter than eat this.  It has a gritty consistency because of the sugar and tastes too sweet and not ""pea-nutty"". It was more sugary sweet than tasting like peanut butter and the gritty texture just turned me off, maybe because it was creamy?<br />I would like to find a PB with less fat but still enjoy it, this was not it for me."
,,,,,Great Skippy Reduced Fat Peanut Butter,This is the best reduced fat creamy peanut butter I've tasted. My whole family loves it.  We it by the case.  Great food!
,,,,,Tasty Reduced-Fat,This is the first Redued-Fat Peanut Butter that I have thought was a good peanut butter.  I will buy it again when this is gone.
,,,,,Great flavor.,"I do not buy this because of the fat content, I honestly find that it tastes better than the Skippy full fat- and does not get those oily collections that the full fat gets. Highly recommend this product if you love peanut-butter."
,,,,,Yummy!,This is the only peanut butter that I eat.  I love the low fat Skippy.
,,,,,Tasty!,This PB tastes good and is goood for you! It makes good sandwiches. I only wish it were in stock more often!
,,,,,Favorite oatmeal!,"This oatmeal is extremely filling and has a hearty consistency, impressive for an instant oatmeal, I know.<br /><br />The flavor is somewhat bland, which allows one to be creative with add-ins! (I prefer to add raisins, dried cranberries, and/or cinnamon to mine).<br /><br />The nutritional information is great, especially the plant derived Omega and added whole flax seeds, but I wish there was less added sugar in it though.<br /><br />All in all, I am happy this is my breakfast every morning, as I get myself off to a healthy start each day!"
,,,,,Sugar is the second ingedient,"For the uninitiated, 'evaporated cane juice' is just sugar by another name. Another product that tries to present itself as healthy, but isn't really...eating something that lists sugar as the second ingredient isn't what I would consider to be a healthy start for the day."
,,,,,My sweetheart is addicted to this,"It's true. If he doesn't get his delicious breakfast oatmeal he freaks out. So we buy it by the case and everyone stays happy. It's a better price than our local grocery.<br /><br />This is a great, easy hot cereal with plenty of fiber and other good stuff. Despite all the added seeds, the flavor is still basic enough to support add-ins like dried fruit, brown sugar, honey, etc. It's also good plain and will keep you satisfied all morning. I also like this brand's cold cereals."
,,,,,Wonderful breakfast cereal,Almost every morning I reach for the Organic Hot Oatmeal Hemp Plus.  It has more body than the typical grocery store instant oatmeal.  It is rich in whole grains and full of fiber.  It is not too sweet; I usally add a teaspoon of my favorite sweetener.  I highly recommend this product.
,,,,,Good stuff!,I like it a lot!  Great taste ... not too sweet.  Perfect way to start the day!
,,,,,Very tasty,"Hemp foods are great, the slightly nutty taste is always something I enjoy. I almost rated this item four stars because it doesn't have a strong hemp seed taste - but after some thought it is probably best that way.<br /><br />I add a bit of brown sugar and one packet will fill me up (not true with most other oatmeals)."
,,,,,Delicious and filling,"Very yummy!! I used to eat the variety pack from this same brand, but I love this flavor so much I eat it every day. It's especially yummy with coconut oil added in. Love Nature's Path!"
,,,,,Great Breakfast flavor!,"So, somehow Diamond captured the perfect flavor of french toast without all the calories. Such a great flavor, after tasting only a few for the first time I immediately orderd three more. These don't even have that ""Almond"" aftertaste, it finishes very nice with a hint of a butter maple flavor...wow.<br /><br />Now: To Diamond please rename to ""Buttery French Toast"", as this would be much better fitting."
,,,,,"Unique product, well executed","The flavor of these nuts is similar to cinnamon toast cereal, yet they are filling and healthy, containing little sugar and almost no salt. I would deduct a star for being priced too high both here and in the supermarket, but Blue Diamond deserves credit for their restraint in using quality ingredients and in not producing a sugar encrusted candy. Now if they would only go against the trend of charging a huge markup for minimal extra processing cost...<br /><br />The other reviewer seems to think these contain lactose. The ingredients:<br />ALMONDS, EVAPORATED CANE JUICE, BROWN SUGAR, CORN MALTODEXTRIN, CINNAMON, NATURAL FLAVORS AND SALT. PEANUT FREE. MAY CONTAIN OTHER TREE NUTS. Unless OTHER TREE NUTS comes from cows, I don't think this is true."
,,,,,Great Snack,I ordered these nuts off a whim because of the flavor. I just got into eating more nuts because I don't get enough Omega 3's. Everybody that I shared these with loved them! I went through 2 containers in a week (because of sharing). This will be a staple in my house from now on!!!
,,,,,Absolutely delicious!,"These have more net carbs than the Emerald Cocoa Roast almonds (6g vs 3g), but if you're not worried about that, these are absolutely delicious! If you like flavored nuts, you've got to try these."
,,,,,Simply the best!,I discovered these nuts by accident. They were on clearance ay my local CVS for $1. I wish I had bought them all!<br />The cinnamon and brown sugar flavor is perfect together with the roasted almond flavor. It is not candy coated like other cinnamon almonds (making it a much healthier treat). Everyone that I have shared them with think that they are<br />phenomenal! I highly recommend this product. It is one of the most tasty and healthy snacks you can find. I only wish Amazon would put them on their subscribe and save program.
,,,,,Incorrect information,"At the time of purchase, the production description stated:<br /><br />Blue Diamond Natural Cinnamon Brown Sugar Oven Roasted Almonds 8 oz<br />by Blue Diamond<br />Be the first to review this item  Like (0)<br />List Price: $32.55<br />Price: $6.82 ($0.12 / oz)<br />You Save: $25.73 (79%)<br /><br />Product Description<br />Blue Diamond Almonds Oven Roasted Cinnamon Brown Sugar - 6 Pack<br /><br />Both the list price and description suggests that it is a 6 Pack.<br /><br />I ordered 2 and received 2 ""1 packs"".<br />This is a single 8 oz container."
,,,,,Best snack ever!,I got these at my local Publix. They're the best tasting almonds of the bunch. The butter toffee tastes natural and the almonds are of good quality. They also make dark chocolate covered almonds. They taste like Cocoa Puffs but are still pretty good if you're looking for a cocoa kick instead.
,,,,,My 3rd favorite flavor,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,A great little snack,"At first, I thought these tasted a little artificial. After a few handfuls I realized I like them, regardless.<br /><br />I am a big fan of this company's products, and have even gone so far as to speak with one of their growers about the integrated pest management systems they employ (using the smallest amount of pesticides possible).  I will keep buying all their other flavors. The Bold line, especially the Habanero, is also excellent, as are the dark chocolate variety."
,,,,,Incredible!,"These almonds are nothing short of incredible- they are so delicious! If you are trying to follow a low-carb lifestyle (for dietary reasons or weight loss) and need a 'sweet fix' after meals, then this is a wonderful option - only 6 g. Net carbs! And the taste is so yummy! They are just sweet enough! I'm so glad that amazon sells them in bulk, because I could easily go through one container in a week!"
,,,,,Healthy and delicious!,"If you want a truly healthy, filling snack, you must give these a try, as well as their sisters, the Vanilla Bean Almonds. They are both just lightly sweetened, and fragrant with either the cinnamon or the vanilla, depending on which you choose. The container is marvelous; there is a half flip top which is easy to do with one hand (like in the car). And they're not roasted in more oil, so the almonds are ""meaty"" and sweet. And almonds are SOOO good for you. I'd recommend that you try them, and then get an Amazon subscribe and save if you can. It's well worth it! And all natural. LOVELY!"
,,,,,Not the same as the canned version,"I expected that these canisters of Blue Diamond ""Roasted Almonds - Honey"" would be the same product as the little cans of Blue Diamond ""Honey Roasted Almonds"" ( <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000ZSZ5PW"">Blue Diamond Almonds Honey Roast, 6-Ounce Tins (Pack of 12)</a> ) but they're surprisingly not the same, and have a very ""off"" taste.  What a disappointment!  Blue Diamond has apparently seen fit to add much more maltodextrin and ""other natural flavors"", which I suspect cause the odd taste, thus ruining a fabulous product.<br /><br />I've been having a hard time finding the small cans of Blue Diamond ""Honey Roasted Almonds"" at the supermarkets, despite all the other flavors being carried.  It's as if Blue Diamond just, for some reason, *wants* this product to fail.  First they make it hard to get the canned version, then they completely change the taste of a great product and package it in a canister, using a name that is so similar that it contains all the same words, but without a hint that it's not the same product.<br /><br />I'd contact Blue Diamond and complain, but I already know that they never respond to customers despite having a contact link on their website.  In the past, I wrote to them when they test-marketed and then removed some wonderful silvered almonds (not ""slivered"" but silvered, as in almonds with a very light sugary coating);  when I wrote to ask, instead of appreciating my interest as a customer, they simply ignored me.<br /><br />So I'm offering this review as a warning to anyone else who might make the same mistake, and think that these almonds will be like the similarly-named canned ""Honey Roasted Almonds"" from the same company.  The ones in the can are great;  these are just plain awful, and I'll be throwing out 2.9 canisters of 3 purchased."
,,,,,Nice salt on a very dry nut.,"OK, I like a little richness. These nuts have a flavorful salt taste, but are almost too dry to get down your throat."
,,,,,"The taste is crunchy,","I love these almonds. They are my favorite to date and I would definitely buy again. The taste is crunchy, they are well toasted and the salt that has been added is just perfect. Not too little, not too much. Best I have ever eaten!!"
,,,,,Too Much Sugar!,"This is basically candy masquerading as a ""healthy"" snack. They taste good - because they have three different kinds of sugar in them! Blue Diamond  wants you to think that eating sugar is a healthy snack - c'mon!<br /><br />I purchased these thinking they were sweetened with stevia. Yeah, there's a miniscule amount of stevia (very last ingredient) - but sugars are the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th ingredient listed. These have corn maltodextrin - the worst thing there is on the glycemic index (can you say fat formation?). Now I'm stuck with 3 containers of this sugar snack."
,,,,,Always fresh!,"These are the best tasting almonds. I buy them in bulk to share at work. Any time someone finds cheaper almonds, they always come back to these because they can't be beat."
,,,,,Like Snickerdoodle cookies!,"I love these almonds!!  They taste just like a snickerdoodle cookie, but make for a much healthier snack!  One of my favorites of the Blue Diamond Oven Roasted varieties.  Buying them in a 6-pack is more cost-effective for me, especially now that I can't find them in my grocery store. I wish they came in the large resealable bag like some of the other flavors, but for now I'll stick with the 6 container pack."
,,,,,Delicious and healthy treat!,"I wouldn't call these almonds sweet, but they do have just the right hint of sweet flavor that the almond is elevated and feels like a treat.  The taste and texture of almonds doesn't particularly appeal to me, but they're such a healthy snack that I'm glad to find this delicious option.  Also, the small container is the perfect size to have on your desk or keep in the car, or use as stocking stuffers like I plan to do for a couple of my healthy eating conscious friends!"
,,,,,You are only getting one container!,"I purchased 2 other types of Blue Diamond almonds on the same day, and they were both around $11 for a pack of 3. T his one was only ONE 8 oz. container, and I assumed it was at least 2-3 containers since the cost was over $8."
,,,,,Yummy!,Nice sweet treat with some nutritional value. These are fantastic! The only thing is I can find them in more local store at a lower cost.
,,,,,YUM!!!!,"I LOVE the Blue Diamond Butter Toffee and The Chocolate.  This is my first try with the Cinnamon and they are fabulous!  I eat and live low carb and eat a lot of nuts...the flavored Blue Diamond Almonds are hard to find, so I am happy to find them on Amazon.  Even better to have them delivered to my door FAST & FREE!  Thanks Amazon and Blue Diamond!"
,,,,,Amazing,"I love salted and smoked almonds. I had never even heard of Butter Toffee almonds before.  But, wow, I'm glad I tried them.  They are just sweet enough to satisfy my sweet tooth without overwhelming you with a sugar taste.<br />Another reviewer was right, they taste a lot like french toast.  I'm definately buying these again."
,,,,,boy these are some tasty nuts !!,Ive had some tasty nuts before but these are exceptionaly good. try them ! im very happy with this product
,,,,,"Should almost be labelled a ""BOLD"" flavor","Butter Toffee is not a flavor I thought I would like - for some reason the name makes me think of an icky flavor. However, I became hooked at first bite. This flavor is much sweeter than the Honey Roasted. It certainly becomes my top ""dessert almonds"" when in need of that sweet replacement.<br /><br />Absolutely great for those on a low-carb or Keto diet - only 6 Net Carbs per serving. The bold, sweet flavor keeps you satisfied after only a small amount.<br /><br />Highly recommended!"
,,,,,Best almonds ever,"These almonds are my favorite almonds.  Wal-Mart used to carry them, but now I have to order online.  They are the perfect balance of cinnamon and sugar without being overpoweringly sweet."
,,,,,If You Like Almonds and You Like Cinnamon You will like these,The Almonds are very very fresh tasting.  The cinnamon adds an extra bonus of goodness to the almonds with a great flavor.  We keep them in the fridge.  We also mix them with all the other nuts we have making our own nut mixture.  Excellent snack with protein.<br /><br />Just ordered some more of them.
,,,,,Love the new flavor!,"I love these for a snack. I get a nice taste of chocolate and mint (in addition to the almond, of course), but it isn't super sweet. I hope Blue Diamond keeps coming out with more flavors. The Butter Toffee is great too."
,,,,,A heathly snack we all love,Great taste.  The Blue Diamond flavors are way better than the Emerald flavors.  Great between meals snack that we all eat.  Also grab to put in baggies for lunches.
,,,,,Best Almonds Hands Down,"After trying every kind of almond out there over the years, I will take these flavorful Blue Diamond almonds any day.  They are fresh, salted just right and not greasy/oily.  I try to eat a handful a day, usually as a mid-afternoon snack for optimum health benefits. The handy container is easy to use and even indicates portion size.  Unfortunately, this type of almonds is getting more and more difficult to find in my local stores, so I was happy to be able to order a 6-pack from Amazon to have in my pantry."
,,,,,Our favorite,These are our absolute favorite almonds and love that there isn't any fake sugars in them.  I'll take more calories with real sweeteners any day over sucralose in the other brands. And this flavor is DELICIOUS.  YUM!
,,,,,Yummy in my Tummy :),"I ordered these lovely almonds a few weeks ago, as I often find myself jonesing for junk food, and I thought that if I had something that was good for me around, I would be less likely to grab something terrible.  These nuts are packed with nutrition, and they taste amazing.  They have just enough flavor to make me want more, but the fact that they are high in fat makes it difficult to eat too many in one sitting; I'm satiated with two handfuls.  I go through one little container every week or so.  They are perfect for anyone concerned with nutrition or trying to put on or keep muscle- they pack 6 grams of protein in 1 oz.  I will definitely be re-purchasing these nuts. I wasn't so keen on the idea of the canisters, as I don't like producing so much waste, but I have purchased nuts (peanuts etc) in the past in bulk, and they did go bad before I finished eating them.<br />These nuts have kept me out of the icecream, chocolate chips, and other naughty sweet things that have little nutritional content.  These nuts taste like they should be bad for you, but they are more similar to vitamins than junk food; read the back for the nutritional content: 35% Vitamin E, 15% Phosphorus, 20% Magnesium, 35% Manganese....the list goes on...:)<br /><br />Update: I ordered my second shipment of these.  I love these and I eat a handful of these almonds after my morning banana yogurt shake and with my vitamins :)"
,,,,,My 3rd favorite flavor,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,My favorite flavor bar none,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,My 3rd favorite flavor,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,"reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies, but  with less sugar.","Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br /><br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br /><br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br /><br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br /><br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br /><br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar.<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Blue Diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br /><br />3rd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of the  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar.<br /><br />4th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br /><br />5th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br /><br />But that's just me; you might have a completely different take on these flavors.  I intend to sample all of these over this year and will be making updates to this review.  3rd and 4th are very close.<br />Gunner March, 2012"
,,,,,great value,"these are a good thing for you and sometimes hard to find in a larger container at the store, so these make it much easier and there a good price here."
,,,,,Awesome,"These are incredible!  Eating these makes me not want to eat candy.  I love these!  The price isn't that great though.  I think Blue Diamond should save money by packaging them in something cheaper than plastic.  I did notice it on Amazon in a box, but the price looks odd - over $50?  Too bad Amazon doesn't stock this, so no Free Shipping."
,,,,,Ideal Healthy Snack,"The almonds tastes all right. Since it is too dry, the salt can hardly stay on surface. Therefore, it is not salty enough. On the whole, it is a healthy snack. I hope this type of almonds can have subscription service and discount."
,,,,,"Butter Toffee almonds are sooo good, but hi-carb","I've tried several of the Blue Diamond jar almonds and the Butter Toffee almonds are the best.  They would probably be my favorite almond, but they're high-carb. I guess the trick is to only eat a few at a time....  We can all do that, right?  :-)<br /><br />I agree with the other reviewer who said that the Blue Diamond almonds in the cans are better than the ones in the jars -- my favorite are the Vinegar & Salt -- but the Butter Toffee almonds are the exception."
,,,,,Satisfies My Sweet Tooth in A Healthy Way!,It seems impossible that there is a healthy snack that tastes like cinnamon brown sugar but they've managed to do it.  I love these and I always have my cabinet stocked.  This quenches my sweet tooth without gulit.  I highly recommend it.
,,,,,luckey,Do buy the almonds.  Great for snacks and travel.  The contanier has a close top which is great for storage.
,,,,,Delicious snack,Great flavor.  I snack on these when I need a boost of energy.  They help satisfy cravings between meals.
,,,,,The best almonds on earth!!!,"I must say, these almonds have made me a lover of nuts!!!  I have always been a cashew girl and never cared that much for almonds. Well, being on a low carb diet made cashews a no no.  Almonds roasted only with sea salt are soooo good. Blue Diamond makes the best tasting and these are hard to find in stores.  I love the 1 lb bag of these, but can't seem to find them. Buying these in bulk was the best deal out there and I will have to purchase again.  Thanks, Blue Diamond for a superior nut!"
,,,,,Excellent Low Sugar Sweet Treat,This almond product is wonderful!  I am so excited to have healthy options that curb my sweet tooth.  It has on 5 sugars for an ounce of almonds.<br /><br />Wahoo!
,,,,,Healthy option,"These almonds taste good, not as well flavored as the cinnamon or vanilla flavored but a decent change of pace.  A little plain though."
,,,,,LOVE this product!,I love these almonds!  Wish they sold them somewhere locally so I didn't have to buy them in bulk over the internet.
,,,,,Love these nuts!,If you are an almond fan like me and like sweets as well this is a great treat.  And healthy as well.
,,,,,Love at first bite!,"These almonds are fantastic!  I can't find them locally, so I'm glad Amazon sells them (comes to under [...] bucks a bottle).  The only thing better?  <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000ZSV556"">Blue Diamond Natural Oven Roasted Almonds Vanilla Bean, 8-Ounce Jars (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,"Perfect Almonds, Great price !","Compared to what I pay at the normal grocery store for almonds, these are priced great, and taste fresh and crunchy. The sea salt taste is perfect, and the containers are conviently sized."
,,,,,Excellent!,"This is an excellent product.  I tried a handful that a friend had and I was hooked!  It has good flavor without being too salty.  You can also chop them and add to salads or in green beans.  My kids enjoy them also, good alternative to junk snacks!"
,,,,,Healthy Snack,"I love sea salt and I love almonds.  This snack is so good, I had to keep reminding myself that this is a healthy snack.  Unbelievable.<br /><br />Almonds have a lot of health benefits.  One benefit, in addition to all the others, is heart-health.<br /><br />This snack is perfect for anytime you want a snack, but don't need anything unhealthy."
,,,,,Love these,"Love these - very flavorful and wholesome.  I'm hooked!  Unlike the heavily oiled/salted/roasted almonds found in most grocery stores, these actually taste like real food."
,,,,,Too much sugar - big time headache!,"These gave me a headache, too much sugar, and other ingredients that didn't sit well.  I would not recommend to someone trying to eat healthier."
,,,,,Best Tasting Almonds,Great taste.  Almonds are high in overall fat but low in saturated fats that most contribute to weight gain.  Buy a case; they stay pretty fresh when sealed for 6 months
,,,,,wow  really,"So the hottest-hot-off-the-press recommendation is an ounce of almonds a day will help keep the doctor away.... and for good reason.  They're full of B (and other) vitamins, fiber, --not-cholesterol, not-sodium, not-empty calories, and not tasteless wallpaper paste....<br /><br />But these --- these new Blue Diamond almonds (I've so far tried both the Brown Sugar Cinnamon and the Vanilla -- are soooooo good that it's hard to stop at an ounce.  This has become my after-dinner treat.<br /><br />To help fight the sodium bugaboo, they've instead coated them with a velvet dairy whey based powder (take note, lactose-intolerant folks) that is loaded with flavor.  They're not sweet -- except the sweetness of the lactose.  And they're not the least bit salty.  They taste like a great dessert in both flavor and texture.<br /><br />Thumbs way up -- licking my fingers kind of up."
,,,,,I prefer the flavored,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,Cinnamon nom nom noms,"These taste exactly like cinnamon toast crunch, but with the nutritional composition of almonds. They're pretty mind blowing. Don't be afraid of buying a 6-pack; you'll need it."
,,,,,delish,"Sugar coated almonds...why do you even need a review.  If you like almonds and sugar, you'll like these.  If you don't, you won't."
,,,,,Not a big fan of these,"All the 5-star reviews convinced me to buy these...I wish I hadn't :(  It's been two months since I purchased them and I still have four out of the six containers unopened.  They're just blah.  Now the chili lime flavored almonds from Blue Diamond, on the other hand, are Mmm Mmm good!"
,,,,,Tastes like Pistachios,"These taste good and are edible but I am only giving 1 star to let people know that this product tastes like Pistachios to me, not almonds. I don't know why. If I wanted Pistachios I would've bought them. I had a craving for almonds and these just don't do the trick. They also contain a weird ingredient; CORN MALODEXTRIN. WHY?! They are ALMONDS! All you need is almonds and salt, maybe oil! So much for being ""All natural""."
,,,,,NOT as good as the ones in the tins,"Local retailers stopped carrying the Blue Diamond Honey Roasted Almonds in the small tins for some time now.  Not planning ahead enough to buy another case, I picked up these in hope that ""oven roasted"" + ""honey"" = that same goodness.  NOT TRUE.  These almonds are cloyingly sweet.  They also taste a bit milky, but there are no milk products listed, which just makes the flavor even stranger.  They don't have that crusted on goodness of the tin ones.  However, my 6 year old really likes them and, while I don't have a container to compare, I'm thinking that the lack of crusty goodness *might* make these a somewhat healthier choice for her.  So I give the product 3 stars -  an average of 5 from her and 1 from me."
,,,,,not my favorite,"The delivery was extremely quick, the packaging was fine, and if you suck off all the honey, the almonds even taste pretty good. but i for one do not like this flavor. Mind you, I could eat 3095826 honey roasted PEANUTS."
,,,,,Best so far,"So far this is the best cola flavoring I've found for those wanting to make their own cola.  It's got stevia in it, so it still doesn't taste 100% like coca cola, but it is SO MUCH BETTER than the nasty cola flavor that sodastream makes.  And hey - no artificial sweeteners is always good!<br /><br />It doesn't taste quite like cola, but it's close enough to make me happy and I liek it for it's own flavor."
,,,,,No good.,I am looking for a replacement for Coca Cola and I read the positive reviews here and decided to purchase at my local Whole Foods. There's a gross stevia aftertaste and it tastes nothing like commercial cola; it's not good and it's misnamed.
,,,,,Excellent,"I've been a Flavrz fan for about a year. But all that time I pretty much stuck to the Tropical flavored version. Which was excellent. Recently I decided to order a couple new flavrz flavors, through Amazon. This cola I think is excellent. I have been drinking it just with filtered water. Really good taste. I just wish it was easier to get the stuff."
,,,,,A great taste of home!,"I'm sitting here watching the Olympics, enjoying my latte. And in the national spirit of giving praise, this espresso ground is great! We moved from California and have been dissapointed with the affordable coffee here in NYC. I missed my Peet's!!They're tops in flavor and body. It's just a godsend to have it arrive fresh and ready to go. Thanks!"
,,,,,item is delicious; price is ridiculous,"During my recent visit to New Orleans in June of 2012, I fell in love with Etouffee' sauce on redfish.  Oh my goodness. Delicious.  I picked up a few packages of the Louisiana Cajun Etouffee Mix, for $2.00 per package, and made it at home. It was fantastic.  I ordered the product on Amazon from a particular seller and for the price of more than 7 dollars, was delivered one package. The product description on the website did not clarify the number of packages to be delivered for this amount...I assumed three packages for that price. I received one package and returned it to them immediately.  You can purchase this product on line from the retailer for less than two dollars per package with free shipping.  So, avoid purchasing this via this seller.  Great product however."
,,,,,Stay Away from this company,"This is a rip off.  Found out that you can buy this product for under $2.00 just about anywhere, not the $7.99 they charge.  In fact you can go directly to the manufacture and order.  Do not get rip-off."
,,,,,Delicious,"Delicious!<br />Ideal to eat with fruit, and if you want to eat with some chips (is not too spicy) i like this very much"
,,,,,Works great with a Keurig Brewer !!!,I really love my Keurig brewer but after my third purchase of highly priced tea and coffee K-cups I knew I needed a more cost efficient solution. I purchased a My K-cup for the unit which allowed me to use regular canned coffee but what was I going to do about the tea? I tried opening tea bags and using that tea but it was weak and flat. Next I tried using this tea and it worked perfect (but a word of caution...remove the tea leaves from the filter while moist to make removal easier). No more brewing an entire teapot for just a quick morning cup and no waiting for tea bags to brew and it tastes great!!! Not weak and off taste but perfect. My tea consumption has increased to the point that I now use the Amazon auto ship to receive 6 boxes at a time so that I never run out. If you have a Keurig and love tea this product is the perfect solution...you won't be disappointed.
,,,,,lipton loose tea,"This loose tea is hard to find in stores, I had to order it online and discovered it's a better tea than I usually get with an added bonus of being less expensive so I'm very pleased. I use it only for iced tea, so can't say how it is when hot. It's a stronger tea so I use less. I hope you continue to carry it because I plan on buying more in the future."
,,,,,It Just Takes Practice,"Okay, I didn't read the description very well.  I ordered ""loose"" tea on accident.  By ""loose"" tea, I just thought it still meant it would be in a tea bag.  I know, don't make fun of me.  I just didn't read it well, and I am not an expert on tea.  Being frugal like I am, I was forced to use the tea anyway.  (I would still like directions on how to make it without a fancy strainer.  It just went straight through my colander.  hee hee) I put the recommended amount in the coffee maker and brewed it that way.  It was way too strong.  I was able to get three gallons of iced tea from the recommended amount for one.  Anyway, after a lot of trial and error, I now have drinkable tea.  Lipton has always been my favorite tea, and after I drink all of this that I purchased, I will probably stick with the loose tea.  Frugality wins always..."
,,,,,Great Iced tea!!!,"My family and I have been using this tea for over 40 years.  I make the best unsweetened tea I've ever had with this tea, and get many many compliments on it.  If you use good water, this tea will last for a day or two without refrigeration, which changes it's flavor.  I am in South Texas and we take our tea very seriously down here.  This strong, brisk, hearty brew is just the thing on a hot summer afteroon.  I haven't experienced stained teeth or other ill effects, either.  Using a drip coffee maker to brew it keeps it from overheating and getting bitter.  It's healthy, too, with plenty of antioxidants in it's orange/black pekoe blend.  If you try it and it's too strong, tinker with your recipe.  Once you get the ratio right, you'll find it is delicious."
,,,,,Better Tea,"I love this tea.  I am a long-time tea drinker, and purchased tea bags for longer than I want to count (or think about).  A couple of years ago I decided to go for it...make loose tea, and deal with mess of leaves.  And yes, I did know about strainers and tea balls, but I live in no man-s land.  If it isn't prepackaged, it's unfit to ingest according to the natives.  Good utensils are hard to find.<br /><br />I finally found a wonderful BIG mesh tea ball.  Ahhh, a tea drinker's best friend, right after a good English teapot.<br /><br />The mesh ball in question is like the one sold here as a rule, by the way.<br /><br />Tea is now a breeze to make, and absolutely delicious.<br /><br /> The loose packaged tea put out by Lipton is wonderful.  It has a beautiful taste, unlike their teabags, which can be very iffy.  I've had some that tasted like floor sweepings.<br /><br />This loose tea seems amazingly consistent in flavor.  I recommend it without reservation. And isn't Amazon just lovely...?  They'll bring it right to your door.  How much more could you ask?<br /><br />Earlier I mentioned an English teapot.  I favor Sadler's because of the excellent glaze, and the good material they use in the functional brown teapots they make.<br /><br />A good teapot matters.  Get yourself one, a nice tea ball, and some Lipton Loose tea and you will likely never use teabags again.  If the tea is too strong, do it the way it's done in England; keep a very lightly boiling kettle going, and dilute with boiling water to your taste."
,,,,,delicious flavor loose brew tea,"Lipton loose tea is great for brewing iced tea or hot tea. Mellow yet intensely flavorful, this tea works very well with iced tea makers or coffee brewers. I wouldn't use a coffee maker that's been used for coffee, though, as the coffee effervescence will overpower the tea's flavor. My only gripe is I would like to see loose tea available in larger packages. Lipton used to sell it in one pound boxes, but now it's only available in 1/2 pound boxes. This six pack helps make up for the problem somewhat. We drink iced tea like some people drink their coffee: all the time! So loose tea works great for us (4 TBSP makes about a gallon) It's much easier than messing with a dozen or more tea bags per gallon. With the free shipping, the price per box is equal to or less than the purchase price in our local grocery stores and Wal*Mart stores, and that's with delivery to my front door!"
,,,,,Hooray!,"My Italian grandmother got me hooked on Lipton Loose Tea as a child. Tea is important to me- I never have gotten into coffee.  It has been increasingly more difficult to find Lipton Loose in supermarkets, so I have tried to find something to replace it- more expensive, ""fancier"" teas just aren't as good.  This is a great product- sooo much better than tea bags.  We like it hot &/or iced.  People always ask me ""What kind of tea is this?"" and then are so surprised to find out that it is good old reliable Lipton.  Tea lovers- don't be snobs!  Give Lipton Loose Tea a try.  Thanks Amazon for carrying this product!"
,,,,,Good Tea for the Tea Lover,"Despite its reputation as the old standby variety of tea, Lipton compares favorably with other much more expensive brands.  Its loose tea packages are convenient to use and well-packaged for maintaining freshness during storage, shipment, and in the home, even after being opened.  All in all, a very superior product."
,,,,,Lipton Loose Tea,"This is a great product and the only problem we have is the unreliability of finding it on the Grocery Store shelf. With Amazon.com, it's just a Mouse Click and three days away. We keep a supply on hand and reorder from Amazon.com on a regular basis. Thanks Amazon. Hank C."
,,,,,Lipton Loose Tea,The product was received on schedule and in perfect condition. I have been buying this product and brewing it for years and it is still a great product.  It is much better tasting than using tea bags.
,,,,,Best Iced Tea Ever,"I've used Lipton's Loose Tea for almost 50 years now and will never change to another brand unless Lipton's goes out of business.  The loose tea consistently makes absolutely the best glass of iced tea.  Tea bags (any brand) are no comparison, not even close to the same great flavor of Lipton's loose leaf tea. I have a large extended family with many friends, my iced tea is famous among them, for being the best....Thanks Lipton's!  And....thanks Amazon for the wonderful subscription service....Love it!!"
,,,,,comparable to Irish breakfast,"I actually bought a box in Walmart. It was, needless to say, inexpensive so I thought it was worth a taste test. One cup was Barry's Classic blend(loose), one cup Tetley (bag) and the other was Lipton (loose). Tetley's came in a distant-distant 2nd while Barry's and Lipton were tied for first. Both were very similar in body, richness and strength. A word of warning-don't ever buy cheap (in quality) loose or bagged tea. It will be stems and bits of leaves swept up from the floor-at least that is what it looks and tastes like. The tea should be just leaves as dark brown as semi sweet chocolate. All good (and some bad) tea is grown in Africa, India and Sri Lanka ( Ceylon)."
,,,,,Much better than their teabags.,"If you like their teabags, this is really worth a try. The leaves in the teabags seem to be the tea that is rejected when they package the loose tea. This tea has a brighter taste than the tea bag Lipton."
,,,,,Best Tea In The World,"Anyone looking for a good tea bargain and excellent quality taste, this is the deal. I could not find Lipton loose tea in the grocery store and longer, I found this at Amazon on line. The price, freshness and quality is great. I will be buying my Lipton tea here from now on. Everyone wants teabags, they really don't know what quaility is. Thank you very much."
,,,,,The only tea for iced tea!,I grew up drinking Lipton loose leaf tea and didn't even realize there was any other for iced tea until I grew up and left home. It's still the best! I almost panicked when the stores quit carrying it and was so relieved to find it here. I hope Amazon reads these reviews and realizes that we *need* them to keep carrying it! And that Lipton keeps on making it. Everyone likes my iced tea and says so and that's because this is the only tea I use.
,,,,,BEST TEA EVER** Grocery stores are crazy for not stocking it!,"Lipton loose leaf tea beats any other tea I've tried, hands down. When the local groceries stopped stocking Lipton's Loose Leaf Tea. I assumed Lipton had stopped selling it because tea bags were more profitable, and people found it easier to use tea bags. WRONG, we've been sold on the idea of convenience, and taste took the back seat. This tea is packaged in a foil lined package, is fresher tasting and very consistant in quailty. Make it sweet or unsweet, it does not matter. If you make it too strong, just add water, the flavor is there!  You will be amazed as to how many GALLONS of tea you can make with one box.  You will need to brew it a few times to figure out your formula. It's worth the time!  I live in an area that has very soft water, so I don't need as much product to brew a gallon. It definitely takes more if you have hard water.<br />This is how I brew mine (this may help you get started). Using a Mr. Coffee,(12 cup) Measure 3 Tablespoons (slightly rounded) and place in the filter (just as you would coffee) Fill you crafte to the max, and brew. For sweet tea, I use One and 1/4 cup sugar per gallon. It's  easier to put the sugar in a gallon pitcher, then add the hot liquid. The sugar will dissolve completely, and you won't need as much sugar. When the sugar has dissolved, add water or ice to bring it up to a gallon. If you are not pleased with the outcome try making some adjustments. Once you figure it out. It becomes routine, and is probably one of the the most economial drinks you can make!<br />ENJOY!!<br /><br />PS I keep mine in the freezer in a ziplock, after I've opened the box."
,,,,,Lipton Loose Tea,I love the Loose Tea. The bag tea has a harsh taste compared To the loose tea. If you drink more than 1 cup a day use a CLEAN (never used for Coffee) Coffee pot. Small 4 cup pots only need 1 tea spoon for weaker a little more for stronger tea.
,,,,,"Lipton Black Tea, Loose, 1/2 pound Boxes (Pack of Six)","We have been using this product for many years of enjoyment.  In summer, my wife uses it for iced tea almost every evening for our supper.  There is some usually left over so it can be used either hot or cold at a later time, even early the following day.  We read that tea is good for the body too."
,,,,,Great for iced tea,Its hard to beat this for making iced tea. It makes a strong tea that manages to quench a thirst on a hot day. Just dont steep is too long or it will get bitter (I find that 4 mins is about perfect.)
,,,,,Lipton Loose Tea,This is a great product. Shipping was fast as usual and I plan to keep on getting tea from Amazon as long as possible.
,,,,,Convenience and ecology,"I live way out in the boondocks and even the closest little town stores do not carry Liptons' Loose Tea.  I don't want tea bags for both ecological and economical reasons, so the convenience of subscribing to a scheduled shipment at a reasonable price is wonderful for me.  Thank You."
,,,,,Loose tea makes great iced tea,"As others have said, Lipton's Loose Tea is very difficult<br />to find in stores.  I prefer the loose tea to the tea<br />bags for iced tea.  I hope Amazon continues to offer the<br />Loose Tea as I try and stock up when I can."
,,,,,the greatest tea in my opinion,"I was so disappointed to find that the two stores I shop in had stopped carrying the loose Lipton tea.  This is the only tea I use.  There is a difference between it and tea bags and I'm thrilled that I can buy it on line (and as an added bonus, it's cheaper!)thanks so much"
,,,,,Tea,It's very hard to find this product in local grocery stores. Loose tea is something my wife and I enjoy.
,,,,,GREAT TEA,"GREAT TEA.  IF ANYONE HAS NOT TRIED LOOSE TEA THEY NEED TO, BECAUSE THEY DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY ARE MISSING.  I WAS VERY GLAD TO FIND THIS PRODUCT AGAIN.  MANY THANKS FOR KEEPING THIS WONDERFUL BEVERAGE.  FAST SHIPMENT AND GREAT SERVICE"
,,,,,Great for Lemon Iced Tea,"Initially I purchased this in good faith for brewing it as iced tea as it is quite difficult to find loose tea leaves in stores. Here's my initial report and impressions:<br /><br />The tea leaves came loose of course but the packaging is terrible. The bag is not sealed and the flap is just folded so tea leaves came out of the bag while in transport. So a lot of your tea leaves will be inside the box which is not good. I would hope that in the future Lipton chooses a better packaging alternative to seal the bag so you don't have tea leaves all over the place.<br /><br />And as another reviewer mentioned, it is true that this particular brand has little bits and pieces of tea leaves and is not as good quality compared to other brands. And as always, you pay for what you get. I didn't expect this to be better than my Jasmine tea in a tin can which costs about $45 and taste fantastic. My goal was to buy cheap black tea leaves which are loose to make lemon iced tea which I was able to do well with that.<br /><br />Here is my lemon iced tea recipe after a lot of trial and error and taste testing:<br /><br />-1 Gallon of Lemon Iced Tea-<br /><br />1. 1 Gallon of water<br />2. 5-9 Tablespoons of Lipton Black Tea<br />3. Empty teabags<br />4. 1 cup of sugar<br />5. 1/2 cup of lemon juice<br /><br />Lipton's direction call for 2 tablespoons of Lipton Black Tea to make 1 1/2 quarts of black tea to drink. We know that 4 quarts is equal to 1 gallon, if we used 4 tablespoons of black tea we would only end up with 3 quarts of tea which is short of one gallon. If 2 tablespoons makes 1 1/2 quarts then 1 tablespoon would make about .75 of a quart. So you would need at least a minimum of 5 tablespoons or even about 5 1/4 tablespoons of tea leaves to get your 4 gallons. I would not recommend using more than 9 tablespoons as it would make the tea too strong. Some people have said that the tea is too strong for the little amount that you use to brew your tea but I would have to disagree with that. I thought the tea wasn't strong enough.<br /><br />So go ahead and boil your water till you hit the boiling point. Use between 5-9 tablespoons depending on how strong you want your tea to be and fill up those empty teabags. The directions call for brewing your tea for about 3-5 minutes. Being a tea drinker I knew that if I brew it too long that tannins would be released and make the tea bitter (yes! tannins are what make your tea bitter). If your water is too hot or you brew your tea too long the tannins will be released in the leaves making your tea bitter. Initially I only brewed my tea for about 2 minutes because I was scared that the tea would be bitter if I brewed it too long. But I found that 2 minutes time was not enough time and increased my time to about 3 1/2 to 4 minutes. That is enough time to brew the tea without releasing the tannins so Lipton's brewing time was about spot on. After you finish brewing your tea add your 1 cup of sugar and then your lemon juice. I used cane sugar and Hy-Top reconstituted lemon juice but you can use whatever brand you like or you can even use fresh squeezed lemon juice if you want. I did try Real Lemon Juice while at another supermarket but I didn't like it compared to my generic brand of lemon juice by Hy-Top.<br /><br />You probably wanted to know if I actually drank the tea without it being Lemon Iced Tea, and I did. I didn't like it nor would I recommend you drink this tea this way. I just did not feel that this tea was up to quality compared to many other brands. Maybe I've just been spoiled by other brands but I just feel that this tea wasn't up to par against other black teas nor do I recommend drinking it as just plain black tea. I particularly like the English Breakfast Black Tea by Stash better than this tea. I just felt that the quality difference was a lot but I didn't feel like buying every bag for $0.09 each every time I went to the supermarket just to brew Lemon Iced Tea. If you want to make lemon iced tea with the Stash brand you need 9 English Breakfast Black Tea bags and the same amount of sugar, lemon juice, and water. Economical wise I would get more tea buying Lipton but if taste matters I would choose another tea brand to make Lemon Iced Tea.<br /><br />I haven't tried making Raspberry Iced Tea with this yet but we'll save that for another adventure."
,,,,,"Help, My stomach gets upset with this tea.","I have always loved Lipton teas. It is a daily habit.  I just bought a automatic tea brewer and loose tea for the first time.  Almost immediately I started getting an upset stomach.  It never occured to me that it could be the tea.  I have never had a problem like this.  After a week of stomach problems, and tring different solutions I finally stopped drinking the tea.  Immediately my stomach was better.  A few days later I started drinking the Lipton loose tea again and immediately my stomach was upset.  I looked on the internet and a few suggested I add a bit of honey and a bit of salt.  I tried that with no success.  Does anyone else have any ideas?  I hate to throw out six boxes of tea."
,,,,,Lipton's Loose Tea,I love this tea!!  I drink it every day of the year.  My grandma made her tea from this and its the only tea my family drinks!!
,,,,,Loose Tea is cheaper than Tea Bags,"As I said, loose Tea is cheaper than Tea Bags, and the taste is much better, and this ""Country Boy"" sure loves his Southern ""Sweet Iced Tea"", packed well, received quickly and rapidly made a pitcher in my Mr. Co**ee Iced Tea Maker, I keep my Tea Leaves in an airtight bag in the fridge and use one 25cc scoop of Tea to make 3 Quarts of Tea (you convert it, I'm tired!!!)"
,,,,,Top quality product for hard-to-find loose tea,My family makes a lot of ice tea during the summer.  We are not able to find affordable/quality loose tea in our community.<br /><br />Lipton's loose tea is the best!
,,,,,loose tea,This is the only way to make good good iced tea. you will never taste iced tea as good as homemade and it is cheaper on amazon than in the supermarket!
,,,,,English tradition goes on,"Being married to a person from England, as most people know, they are known for their custom of having tea in the afternoon and always being made in a tea pot with loose tea. It is getting harder too find this in the stores and we are ever so grateful that we can buy it through Amazon. This is our favorite brewing tea and it tastes great! Wouldn't get any other and the price is fantastic. So,if you are a tea lover like we are, give it a try.<br />Thanks for letting us keep up with tradition!!!!!"
,,,,,a few dry grams makes 2 liters of hot tea!,I use a little plastic shot glass to brew 2 liters perfectly at the office. We love it. That's only a few dry grams makes 2 liters of hot tea! Can't find this in my local supermarket. Glad Amazon has it!
,,,,,Best iced tea around,"If you want the best iced tea--and most economical tea around, make it from this fabulous Lipton tea.  Add 3 cups of boiling water to 3 tablespoons of tea; seep 3 minutes and pour into 3 cups very cold water. Serve over generous glass of ice cubes. Sugarless tea that needs nothing but maybe some lemon wedges. You can drink for a month on one box of tea! All bottled teas have too much sugar or substitute; this is healthy and I have been drinking it for 40 years!"
,,,,,The best of the rest,"I am very happy that I brought this Lipton Loose Tea as this loose tea is what we had when I was a Child and its is still as good as I remember it was then ,are better tea than any of the other's tea that are already in a tea bag the flavor of this tea is what a glass of tea was supposed to be likes.I will always buy the loose tea now that I found a supplier I have looked in all of the big name brand super markets and never found any loose tea.I got mine order to come in every three month now but may have to get mine order up from one box too two boxes .."
,,,,,Delicious tea!,"I chose to have this tea sent to me automatically, thereby saving even more money.  It's cheaper this way than I can buy at my local store.  Loose tea made with filtered water makes the absolute best tasting iced tea!"
,,,,,"Lipton Black Tea, Loose,","Excellent way to make good old fashioned tea, beats tea bags ""HANDS DOWN""! Will continue to buy this product and spread the word how ""REAL TEA"" is made.:)"
,,,,,Grrr8!,"Haven't been able to find loose Lipton's tea in grocery stores for years and was delighted to find it here at Amazon. This is absolutely the best buy in tea I have made in my life. Received a very ample supply quickly at minimum cost and Amazon paid the shipping.<br /><br />The Tea is as good as I remembered it and I am a happy camper again, able to make my own by the pitcher.<br /><br />Thank you, Amazon."
,,,,,Lipton's Looseleaf Tea,"Good value, good tea. We've been  using it for years and it always makes a good pot of tea."
,,,,,Love this tea.,I love this product and can't find it locally. Thanks Amazon I turn to you for help when I can't find things in my community.
,,,,,Love this service,"We use loose tea all the time, and regular loose tea has become hard to find in our local grocery stores. This subscription is great."
,,,,,Morning Mainstay,"Can't start the day without a pot of this tea! Loose tea brewed in a ""coffeemaker"" has been my morning mainstay for decades. Start with cold, filtered water and a scoop (rounded tablespoon) of loose tea per cup into the paper basket filter. Adjust per taste. If you use a machine where coffee had been brewed, it may affect the taste, so use any new machine and keep it just for tea. This makes wonderful iced tea!<br /><br />Loose tea is a broader cut leaf unlike teabags where the leaf is chopped fine. The flavor is much fuller and crisper, like the difference between fresh ground coffee and instant. No messy teabags to contend with. I like glass mugs, as they let the gorgeous color of the tea show through.<br /><br />Some areas may not stock Lipton loose tea in stores, but buying online turned out to be cheaper. Six half-pound boxes arrived in two days. A box will last me about two weeks, but I drink tea exclusively. There are many good ""imported"" teas that are much more expensive and a lovely addition, but for my daily enjoyment, Lipton's is a delicious necessity. This is the preferred tea when using French presses or a traditional teapot."
,,,,,Lipton Loose Leaf Tea,"Fewer and fewer stores carry loose-leaf tea and I was so glad to find it on Amazon. Who knew?  I've become an avid fan of Amazon over the last few months.  It's wonderful to have someone ELSE do the ""shopping"" for me and allows me to find products in one place."
,,,,,The very BEST way to drink tea,"I make my loose tea in a coffeemaker that has never been used for coffee, and I use unbleached filters to hold the tea.  The tea is fresh and so flavorful you wont believe it.  There is no dust in this tea as in teabags, just real tea.  I dont understand why loose tea isn't available everywhere, but I am glad to have found this source for it.  The price is very reasonable, especially when compared to other loose teas.  Do a Google search for loose tea and you will found out for yourself."
,,,,,Great Tea,"This is a great Tea. I use a french press to make my Tea. A lot of people use a coffee maker, And I have too in the past.<br />I have found that if you use a french press and hot water from your water dispenser and let it steep as per the instructions this will be the best tea you have had in a long time. Don't take my word for it TRY IT."
,,,,,Love the tea,"Tea tastes great.  Overflows my ice tea maker, but worth it; I guess.  Tazo is better but much more expensive."
,,,,,Satisfied customer,"This is my third order of Lipton loose Tea.  It isn't easy to find in our local stores, so I really like to be able to depend on Amazon to provide this product for me.  Excellent product and service and recommend this all."
,,,,,Boxed Nostalgia,"Lipton Loose Tea, <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000EM6PC6"">Lipton Loose Tea, 8-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 6)</a>, is a reminder of the way things were when I was a little child.  My mother, all her sisters, my grandmother, and all our friends considered Lipton Loose Tea to be TEA. There was no other for them.  I grew up thinking anything else was an ""off"" brand.  (Lipton Tea is America's favorite tea.)<br /><br />In the South most people make it sweet.  They add the sugar while it is hot so less sugar is required.  Now I prefer to use Splenda (SPLENDA No Calorie Sweetener Granular, 9.7-Ounce Resealable Bags (Pack of 2)) and lemon juice. This tea has a strong black-tea taste.  It is robust and pure.<br /><br />When I moved across the Mississippi River, I was shocked to discover that people in Louisiana drink their tea three times as strong as they do in Mississippi. I think one reason my people liked Lipton Loose Tea so much was that we had very little money and we had to make things go as far as possible.  It was always a good bargain.  Almost any kind of tea is an excellent bargain.<br /><br />Nutritonally it is outstanding.  It is a means of hydrating, which is considered important.  (Always hydrate responsibly:  don't drink too much! You would not want to drown.) Also it is an excellent source of flavonoids, which provide antioxidants. A glass of tea has about half as much caffeine as a cup of coffee.  Since the ingredients vary with different practices, it is difficult to estimate the amount of caffeine.<br />Some caffeine can help many people.<br /><br />On my blog, which you can find at Flavored with Love: Mary Lou's Family and Friends Can Cook, I talked about my mother's tea and all the spread she used to make when she took food to church for dinner on the grounds.  The name of the blog entry is ""Myrtle's Stuffed Eggs.""<br /><br />About stains -- it is helpful to brush and polish your teeth immediately after enjoying this wonderful tea.  Also, you can clean glasses, pitchers, etc., with baking soda. One more tip is to drink with a straw to try to avoid getting so much of the liquid on your front teeth. (I do this, but I don't think it helps much.)<br /><br />I hope you found this review helpful."
,,,,,what a deal,Lipton tea is around $6.75 in the local gorcery store if you cand find it.
,,,,,Great tea,"The best tea for ice tea.  A little harder to use than bags, but the taste is so much better.  I make mine in an ice tea pot and it's always perfect.  I've been drinking it all my life and the quality is always wonderful."
,,,,,Not Very Good  Tea,"I've been drinking loose leaf tea for a while now and this has to be the worst stuff I have tried yet. I believe by ""Fine Tea"" they mean small particle size. My box is about the consistency of a box of dirt, instead of nice leaf parts. Following the directions did not produce a pleasant cup of tea. There is too much bitterness in this tea. I would definitely suggest checking out the Adagio teas. My Mother-in-Law gave me a sampler for Christmas and it had some excellent teas."
,,,,,tea is a little on weak side,I am a little dis appointed with this tea --  This was my first experience with loose tea --  initially this was good loose tea ---  after having tried for several months  -- I am dis appointed -- first it is a weak tea  --  I have tried brewing it  for long time changing my water settings and brew times and I keep getting same result  a weak tea  -- the amt of tea --  I just never seem to get the right mix  --
,,,,,Save your $$ and Buy a Better Quality Tea,Save your money and buy a better quality tea than Lipton Loose Tea.  Tea is better than the bagged version but you will want to pour it through a fine filter before drinking because the leaves are broken and some are just very small particles.
,,,,,foul tasting substance,"There are several types of teas in the world indian ceylon scented teas like jasmine, there's oolong, black green, but one thing binds all these teas together, they taste like tea.<br /><br />This substance has no flavor only an astringent quality.  It is not drinkable plain.  Which I suppose is why people require all sorts of recipes adding sugar, or spices, anything to give this tea some flavor and take away the horrid bitterness.<br /><br />I think it's even worse than the bagged lipton tea if that is possible.  In the bagged tea, they don't put dust in the teabags because it would fall right out of the bag, but since this is loose tea, lipton saw fit to add dust, twigs, anything but the actual leaves.<br /><br />What should you drink?  Anything you like.  I suggest browsing this site called the English Tea Store (no affiliation) just to get an idea about what types of teas it is possible to purchase.<br /><br />I astounds me that anyone could drink this substance and call it ""tea"".  It is not tea, it is particles of bitterness, dust, pieces of twigs, black and tasteless leavings of what used to be a tea plant.<br /><br />What the hell is wrong with you people, to drink this stuff.  By the way I have nothing against some lipton tea, but when you drink this stuff you need to add lemon, sugar, or cream, something because it is awful stuff trying to drink it on its own.<br /><br />If you have to buy tea at a supermarket, try the twinings darjeeling that's a decent blend you can drink."
,,,,,Get better quality tea for less $$!,"Lipton does taste good but it's not a good quality tea! If you open the tea bag you'll see their not tea leaves but tea dust (cheep). Even the loos lipton tea is described as being ""broken down so you need a fine filter to strain it."" When you steep good tea it should unfurl and look like spinach!<br /><br />They say this tea comes to $0.57 an oz?!?!?! Lets do the math. $27.54 devided by 8oz = $3.44.<br />I buy my tea from Set to a Tea [...]). It's really good tea with flavoring and dried fruit pices. It comes to $3 an oz for a tin or $2.57 for a refill. Weather you buy it loose or in bags you get the same quality tea! I went to a tea party last year (like a tupperware party but more fun) where the chick told us all about the different kinds of tea and gave us samples."
,,,,,NOT REAL LOOSE TEA,"This tea was supposed to be loose tea.  I purchase loose tea all the time.  Instead of packaging the tea in bags, they left it loose.  Gave a very couldy tea with a bitter taste."
,,,,,Herbal Tea: 5 Fruit Flavors,"Celestial Seasonings is one of my favorites, if not my favorite, brands of tea.  Fruit herbal teas are my favorite type.  I love this sampler box of herbal teas.  The five types of tea, in order of my favorite flavors, are: Country Peach Passion, Black Cherry Berry, True Blueberry, Raspberry Zinger, and Wild Berry Zinger.<br /><br />I love tea, especially when eating certain foods, but also I love it all by itself.  I love tea with most all kinds of foods, especially cornbread or country foods.  It also goes good with most all other ethnic foods.<br /><br />I usually drink my tea plain (no sugar).  Very, very seldom do I add sugar.  And when I do, it is a very small amount.  Where I grew up, sugar in tea is an option.  However, I was stationed in the Deep South, and they drink thick sugar water with a drop of tea in it.  When my daughter was in elementary school, her teacher had the audacity to bring me a glass of that thick sugar water; I gagged.  I couldn't get past the first sip.  She might have gotten her feelings hurt.  They think you are crazy if you prefer tea with no sugar.<br /><br />Highly recommended if you like fruit herbal teas."
,,,,,Lovely spicy Chai Tea,"I love this tea served as Chai latte, served with milk and honey. In fact, I use evaporated milk instead of regular milk and it gives it a lovely creamy taste. I am no expert on Chai Tea but then, I go by what I like, and I find this particular blend very pleasing. I would recommend it to anyone who like spicy teas."
,,,,,Best Thai Tea so far,"So far this is the closest thing to the Thai restaurant I've tried.  And though it's close, it's still not exactly the same.  It does have that one spice that other Thai teas are missing. It's really outstanding."
,,,,,unbelievably delicious,These truffles melt slowly in your mouth with a wonderful flavor and smoothness. And you want just one! The most satisfying chocolate I've ever had.  I want some NOW!
,,,,,Serious Stuff,"If you are looking for a way to get someone that thinks they can eat anything hot this is it.  I purchased Kick Your Ass sauce which was rated 1,000,000 sc.  Put a bunch on a chip and eat it.  Nothing.  No reaction.  The next day Da'Bomb showed up at my door.  Thinking that it's not much worse than the other I put a bunch on a  chip.....Wow pain.  No Joke pain.  Instantly. The first thing in my mind was why did I do that $%^&*(.  This product is something that you can add to a soup or something but don't put anymore than a drop in your mouth at a time.  It is a neat experience to put a drop in your mouth, serious pain for about 30 minutes but any more rips your insides.  This even from a person that heats habaneros by themselves with his food.<br /><br />If you are going to play a joke on someone, just a drop is good.  The braveheart yesterday had to leave work and didn't return to normal for about 5 hours.  I told him only a drop. His quoto is below when I told him what some other people's reactions were when they took a drop.<br /><br />""Tell them my insides are STILL on fuego. I tried on 3 occasions to puke it all up and nothing. I was sitting on the can and decided I'd better pull up my pants in case I passed out on the bathroom floor-that way the person that found me wouldn't have to see me with my pants around my ankles. I took a piss and it felt like razor blades were coming out. I hope you're happy!!""<br /><br />Trust me some fun stuff and the price is much better than the other stuff that pushes the limit."
,,,,,Hotter than hot!,India is weaponizing the ghost pepper (true story) and in my opinion the idea probably stemmed from the pain and submission that this sauce inflicts upon people. Be VERY careful with this stuff. Just one drop causes myself and all the other insane hot sauce fanatics I know to beg for mercy.  It will cause avid tough guy hot sauce lovers to go into retirement.
,,,,,Hotter than Heidi Klum and more powerful than a Gorilla on Acid,"I bought this hot sauce as my gift for a white elephant party. I had watched several videos of people tasting it and watched them all writhe in pain and many go to the ground. I knew that this stuff was potent and could potentially be used in nuclear weapons. Someone ended up picking it and brought it out to try. I wanted no part of this. While she was attempting to dole out her punishment some of it got on the kitchen table. I went to wipe it up with a rag and accidentally got a small drop on my finger. I instantly washed if off as I didn't want any of its pain to somehow seep into my skin. 30 minutes later I found out the power that this beast holds. I was talking to some people when all of a sudden it felt like someone had lit my junk on fire. This wasn't a ""when you go raw dogg with some shady club chick"" type of burning. This was more like pouring napal down my pants type of burning. Apparently water and soap are not enough to get a drop of this stuff off of your skin. I didn't know that I had to wear gloves to go take a leak after being in the presence of this hot suace. Safe to say for the next 20-30 minutes I was in more pain than having to watch the Notebook twice in a row."
,,,,,Perfect!,"Title says it all. I took a dollop of this on a cracker. There is an odd mild and nondescript flavor that I doubt would taint anything. Then the burn begins to build. It just continues to build up until ridiculous levels. The mouth is the easy part, anyone can conquer that and sit mildly while waiting for the 30 minutes to go by. Its the other 3 hours of intense gut pain that makes a man out of you (you don't see that in the videos). Its worse if you eat it later after a previously eaten meal because it just sits in your stomach burning the hell out of you until all that food goes down the tubes. Sucked both times I did it. Used properly, it puts a mean heat in anything you eat.<br /><br />Don't bother trying to be an hero and eating a spoonful, you can't handle it."
,,,,,"Hot yes, tasty no","Lets get this out of the way - I regularly pop whole habanero peppers in my mouth and douse my food with Dave's Ghost Pepper Insanity Sauce.  That being said, I was looking for the next taste bud hot challenge and figured I'd give this a shot.<br /><br />They don't lie when they say it's HOT.  I put a single drop on a tortilla chip and although I wasn't in pain, I was in moderate discomfort for about 10 minutes.  I think the thing that got to me the most was that the taste was just not very good.  I'm no culinary expert and I'm sure it's extremely difficult to make something that hot taste good but compared to Dave's Ghost Pepper Sauce it was bottom shelf in that department.  That being said, I will be giving it another chance soon, trying to incorporate it into a hot chili experiment.<br /><br />Bottom line: If you're after a sauce to spice up a dish and leave it (mostly) edible for everyone but the diehard hot lovers, I'd recommend sticking with that sauce.  If you're reading these reviews though it's clear that you want hot, and this sauce doesn't disappoint.<br /><br />Heat: 5 stars<br />Overall product: 3 stars (for taste)<br /><br />Scoville Scale reference:<br />Habanero ~ 250k<br />Dave's Ghost Pepper Sauce ~ 650k<br />Da' Bomb Hot Sauce ~ 1500k"
,,,,,Spicy and a decent taste,"Well, yeah the Sauce is awesome. I had a lot of fun with it, especially with friends who say it cant be that hot. Seariously, everyone i know said its the hottest thing they ever had. Since im kinda used to it, it has a great taste at all. But pay attention, dont drop it on your hands, or your hands will start burning and its getting worse when you put them under water."
,,,,,Great Stuff,"One drop of this stuff will make almost anyone cry for mercy. It has 1.5 million scoville units which measure heat in food. FYI your average Jalape&ntilde;o Pepper has 2,500-8,000 s.u. A Habanero chili can have upwards of 350k s.u. A Bhut Jolokia (ghost chili) is the hottest known naturally occurring chili and that has around upwards of 1 million s.u. The Final Answer is 50% hotter than the hottest grown chili. If you want something to break out at parties this is it. I have yet to give it to someone who hasn't shown physical signs of pain. Even people who eat hot foods on a regular basis will still find this stuff extremely hot. I have had lots of fun with the stuff and would recommend it to anyone."
,,,,,Excellent hot sauce. A good fruity taste and great heat.,A drop at a time in a bowl (or pot) of chili will give you the heat level you want. I will save a lot of money on peppers for my chili. A little on a toothpick brought a fellow heat lover to tears.
,,,,,Hottest sauce I own!!!! Unbelievable,"I have tried many sauces from Habanero, to 7 Pod and Trinidad Scorpion, to the Ghost Chilli, and to those not too tasty extracts. And this is the hottest one I have. Hard to believe the hottest pepper in this sauce is the habanero. How can this be hotter than the ghost chilli and others I have. Because of the killer pepper extracts in there. If you can't even handle Ground Zero then don't even look at the final answer. It's ground zero knocked up a million notches. Don't believe me? Try one drop. One drop will leave you drooling and in a lot of pain. It taste pretty bad. It's only meant to taste hot and hurt you. I don't suggest one drop straight on the tongue like I did, put it in chilli or on cheese. But If you gotten up the nerve to try it straight then props to you, enjoy the pain.<br /><br />Worth the money. This small bottle will last you years it's that hot. And cool for any hotsauce collection."
,,,,,Mother lovin' hot,"Yes, the final answer is YES, IT IS HOT!  Why even ask the question?  It is 1.5 million SVU, if you are looking add a little heat, this is not for you, if you want to cry yourself to sleep wondering ""WHY, WHY, WHY!!!???"", then you are looking at the right product, IT'S HOT!"
,,,,,Practical for hotheads,"this review ended up a little long, for those who want something quick, if you have any taste buds remaining this will easily provide a satisfying burn. at least when directly applied to your own food. but also works very well when used as an additive.<br /><br />the flavor starts a little smoky sweet and after 5 seconds it begins to creep in with the heat.<br /><br />that covers my quick verdict, and how it satisfies the reasons I got it. now here is what was going to be my original review and some personal accounts.<br /><br />I had read about various hot sauces for several weeks to find something I could be sure would satisfy. while well beyond the realm of a sauce, with a rating of 1.5 million scovilles, about 6 times hotter than an habanero and nearly twice that of the bhut jolokia, is as others have said hot enough to give anything a satisfying burn with a few drops.<br /><br />my applications so far include on a ritz bits sandwich, on a brownie, tacos, hot chocolate and my sleeping brother.<br /><br />for those of you that have thoughts of pranking others with something like this, I would at least recommend great care in choosing victims. woke my brother within 5 seconds and had him chugging milk withing 10.<br /><br />my personal favorite application is one drop on the ritz bits. I nice strong burn for about half an hour and the small endorphin rush that follows is a good pickmeup, but, by no means recommended, I'm abit of an idiot at times and have been told in other scenarios that I have no taste buds.<br /><br />lastly, so far as I can figure one drop of this in 8 fluid ounces of liquid will raise it about 300 scovilles. so I assumed 4 drops in a cup of hot chocolate would give me about half a jalapeno. well, I could hardly taste the chocolate and my stomach threatened to chew it's way out alien style.<br /><br />and I just reminded myself that I got some sauce on my finger nearly 5 hours ago because after all that time and various hand washings my eye still burned after scratching it.<br /><br />sorry if that's a little long, but I wanted to add more input to this highly underrated product.<br /><br />and very lastly. if indeed the dropper releases 50 microliters at a time (the best description of the measurement of a drop I could find) then there are well over a thousand drops in this bottle. though I'm not that great at math, so you don't have to take my word for the numbers I give here.<br /><br />happy eating,<br />  Daniel"
,,,,,Try and and see for yourself,"Let me preface this by saying that I dont even like hot sauce but after marrying a mexican woman and meeting friends who like spicy food I had to try a few things...I first bought some of Dave's insanity sauces, the ghost pepper and the ""hottest sauce in the universe"" and when I first tried them I did not think it would be possible to try anything worse, then I found this bottle of terror...Let me tell you, those sauces taste like kethcup compared to this, i put about half the amount on those sauces than I did with this sauce and it was so hot, after about 5 minutes I ended up throwing up lol!!  I would not recommend under any circumstances to try it straight out of the bottle, I dont think there is a human being alive that could handle it but if you have a friend who thinks they can handle anything, they will meet their match with this sauce I can guarantee that."
,,,,,Ever wanted to breath fire?,"Let's be honest, most of us buy this for the heat itself - out of curiosity or stupidity.<br />After trying blair's ultra death (i think it was at 1 million scoville), i can tell you that this is much hotter as advertised.<br />1.5 million is not a joke so use one drop per serving.<br /><br />I would give it a 4/5 because of the lack of flavor and taste. There's barely anything to enjoy or to look forward to when you use this hot sauce, but that's expected. I simply use it to make things ""hot"", not to enhance taste or for flavor, and it never fails me.<br />Being that hot, it can last you a long time, worth the $23 dollars."
,,,,,HOT as Hell,"Excellent product! I use a drop on everything. Suprisingly, this hot sauce actually tastes good. I expected it to just be hot, because it includes a pepper extract. But it actually enhances the flavor food, if you like hot."
,,,,,Hot!!!,"Warning this stuff is hot. Just adding a drop into some pho was too much, but if u like and can handle spice then this is for u, be warned thou!  Enjoy."
,,,,,Damn this is a hot sauce!,"Not for the faint hearted! This is really, really hot stuff! I tasted 1 drop on a toothpick and it burnt badly for 10 minutes. But it's all good:))))"
,,,,,Definitely the FINAL answer (for now),"I started with tabasco sauce at age 5, worked my way to jalapenos in my teens, then habaneros, and finally the ghost chili in my 20s. I am always on the hunt for the next HOTTEST sauce as i keep killing my taste buds on this stuff. The last sauce I rolled the dice on was the Dave's Ghost Pepper sauce and it was fantastic. I thought ghost peppers would be the hottest thing until I got my hands on this little tiny bottle called Da Bomb - The Final Answer. Hmmmm... made from Habaneros and pepper extract? It couldn't be too bad I thought. Like a champ I put a dime sized blob on a chip and tossed it in my mouth. After a few chews my parents asked me ""Well how is it?"" I tried to talk and realized once this bad boy goes aerosol or you breathe it you're done. ""It's goo.... *cough* *cough*"" My eyes began to water and the heat took over. This stuff is not a joke, not a game. Over the past year my mouth and tongue has become desensitized to it and I can eat it no problem but the intestines never lie. It feels like the devil himself is laughing while he crawls through your colon, clawing you from within. Do NOT attempt to eat this on an empty stomach. In a pathetic attempt to show off to co-workers I brought it to work and we all tried some before lunch. After a few minutes I felt as if a fiery ulcer had erupted and had to chug about 3 Sodas before it subsided. This is the hottest stuff i've found to date... yet i'm still on the hunt. Use at your own... misguided risk."
,,,,,The final answer indeed!,"I am extremely happy with this product. I used it to add a little fire to my salsa and was not disappointed! Be careful if you get any of the undiluted extract on your skin as it does not easily wash off.  The oils are persistent and if you rub your eyes, etc. you will likely feel the burn.  If you want a brutally hot sauce, this is the one to use."
,,,,,the other reviews are right!,"the ingredients are "" habanero peppers,hot pepper extract,apricot nectar,mustard flour,garlic,and allspice.""  I wrote a review after trying Da Bomb the first time but now that I've had it for a few days i have to revise my statement. I really like this stuff but it's intense. I started small and thought I was a hot sauce champ so I got cocky and put idk how much on a BBQ sandwich.I got dizzy and confused and was like,""uh-oh"" lucky my wife wasn't there to see it because she's always lecturing me about spicy food. Around 2 hours later I was pissing razors. I will continue to eat it though,as much as I can stand anyway."
,,,,,Da Bomb: The Final Answer?  Yes.,"This sauce is most definitely hot.  Not intolerable, but definitely hot, the hottest I own and I have sauces made from the Ghost Pepper. I put a drop about the diameter of a pea on a tortilla chip.  Immediately you have the flavor, which isn't too bad to be honest.  Kind of a dark, smoky, pepper fruit flavor.  Then the heat shows up and keeps building from a tinge until your mouth feels like its glowing.  Maybe its because I wasn't an idiot who took a spoonful of the stuff, but there was no 30 minute burn.  The real burn lasted 5, *maybe* 10 minutes.  The gut bomb that everyone talks about?  Nonexistent.  And I am not one of these people who claim to eat habaneros plain on their own, because I don't.  Personally I have to call BS on the people that say that.  Its a bit expensive for a 2 oz bottle, but when all it takes to give something a pleasant heat is a drop or two without changing flavor, its worth the price.  This sauce will last you for a while.<br /><br />Final thought:  Dont be a hero and try to take a whole spoonful of this.  Not only is it too expensive to use it like that, but take that much and you will regret it."
,,,,,Hottest sauce ever.,This is the hottest sauce I have ever had.  Just 1 drop in a soup makes my mouth burn for 30 minutes and I start crying.  This sauce is not for the faint of heart.
,,,,,Excellent food additive,"Like most other 'sauces' in this heat range, this sauce adds heat to a dish without significantly affecting the flavor.  When you want to control the flavor of a dish with its other ingredients and just add pure heat, this is ideal.  The bottle has a dropper attached to the lid, so it is easy to meter out just the right amount.  Although the price seems a bit high for such a small bottle, it really is a good deal since it only takes a small amount to add a lot of heat."
,,,,,Heat with flavor,"Adds flavor and heat to food. Hot, but not intolerable for those who can handle spicy foods. Purchased as a gift and would buy again."
,,,,,The Final Answer?  OH YEAH!!,"This is one hot extract.  I use 1 drop in a bowl of soup and it makes it plenty hot.  I also use it to heat up my chili.  If you like it hot, but not so over the top you can't taste the food, then this is the Final Answer you've been looking for."
,,,,,Very handy,"Aside from the obvious benefits of using this product to spice up your food, it also works wonders with multiple other ""regular"" household problems.  Rusted bolts don't stand a chance against the metal disintegrating power of this product, it works better and faster then WD-40.  It also does wonders for pest control as I had a few ants constantly in my garage so I put this stuff in a dish with some syrup in the middle.  All the ants died crossing this sauce.  I also successfully removed a small grease stain from my garage floor, which isn't as practical as it is possible because you have to use a majority of the hot sauce.<br /><br />The sauce itself is unbelievably hot.  I'm talking pain inducing I'm too sick to move spicey.  I put a squirt on a chip and thought my nose started bleeding.  I'd recommend you only use this product in LARGE batches of food (large pot of chili).  If you want to experience about as much pain as possible without any long term effects (at least I hope not) take a swig of this stuff.  I'd also recommend a comfortable toilet seat and possibly a magazine subscription and some kleenex if you start crying.  Amazon really knows what to sell if they are trying to increase product sales in other departments."
,,,,,Insanely Hot!,"I really liked this hot sauce, it is incredibly hot. It's perfect for pranking friends with, if you're looking for something like that. My only complaint is that it's a bit hard when cooking with it to find a good balance of the hot and flavor. Other than that, the heat and flavor are both there and are almost perfect!"
,,,,,HOT STUFF!!!,"This stuff is pretty dang hot.  It doesn't have the best flavor, but that is understandable for sauce that comes with a dropper.  Best used for spicing up a pot of beans and rice or chili.  So if you want to try this stuff on a chip or something you better have a half hour or so to deal with the burn...its intense!"
,,,,,final answer,The bottle is tiny but it will go a long way!  All you need is a tiny drop on a toothpick to spice up your plate.
,,,,,1 for the collection.,"This is just one for the shelf. It looks pretty interesting if you hold a flashlight to it. But, the fact it is not an actual EXTRACT and has other ingredients (habanero's being the first) is why I put this one off for years before finally ordering. THE SOURCE from Original Juan (same company that produces this) @ 7.1 million scovilles is a much better purchase. BUY TWO! One bottle of The Source will last a life. Better yet, grab a 1 mL. vial of 16 MILLION scoville capsaicin crystal from [...]"
,,,,,Da Bomb The Final Answer,"I bought this sauce with very high expectations for heat. I was disappointed. I know something is wrong, this is supposed to be very very spicy, but when I tried it... it wasn't too bad at all. I got a bad batch or something. The taste is pretty bad, it's really earthy... dirt flavor. But I wasn't expecting good taste, just heat, which didn't deliver very well. I kept this at a high rating because it's really spicy, but I just got a bad batch."
,,,,,Excellent for Spicing up Dishes,"I love the litter dropper in the lid to add just the right number of drops. It is spicy, but not too bad. For some fun try adding 4-5 drops in your next batch of brownies. It's actually really good."
,,,,,Great gift ideas at Christmas,The dark chocolates were great and the packaging was great for Christmas<br />The tin was something you dont see in America anymore.<br />Perfect to reuse for candy or other things at christmas.
,,,,,wonderful at amazon,"My mother in law loves this product.I looked at several sites and could not find it without havig to, in some cases, pay over 100$ and was so happy to find this on Amazon"
,,,,,Nice but too expensive for such a small size,"There are only a few candies in this tiny box, not worth spending over $20."
,,,,,Great coffee,"A friend introduced me to Lavazza a few years ago, and I have to say it's one of the nicest coffees I've had. I use it in my stove top espresso maker, and it brews a perfect cup every time. I also use the decaf version, which is also really good for decaf. My only gripe would be that it's neither fair trade or organic."
,,,,,Very Good Espresso,This espresso coffee is an excellent coffee.  It has a wonderful head on it and a great flavor.  I only wish it were a little stronger.  It is a mellow espresso flavor and I prefer bold rich flavors to my espresso coffee.  My wife who likes a milder coffee thinks that this is the best espresso she has ever had!
,,,,,Best Espresso Ever,"Just used this product in my DeLonghi EC702. Best cup of Espresso I've gotten from it so far, possibly best cup ever."
,,,,,Ambrosia.,"My daughter, living and working in DC this summer, introduced me to this product while home for a visit.  She encouraged me to give the plain version (just pure coconut water) a chance first, and by the second container, I understood the amazing qualities of this drink.  I felt so refreshed, hydrated, and healthy!  I later tried the kind with pineapple, which is also delicious, but I think the plain is more effective and purely refreshing when really hot, tired and thirsty, while the sweeter fruit infused version will be amazing as part of a cocktail.  Can't wait for 5:00!"
,,,,,Great coconut water in just the right size!,"This has been my favorite brand of coconut water of the ones I've tried. They use real fruit juice for flavoring, as well as it tastes good.<br /><br />We tried the smaller size, and they just aren't large enough to get enough water at the gym, and are not resealable.<br /><br />Things I like about this:<br /><br />* Perfect size for an hour long gym routine<br />* Resealable cap(smaller one lacks this)<br />* Tasty (Like a pina colada)<br /><br />Negative<br /><br />* Box makes it hard to get the last drops- usually end up squishing it up to get the last bit<br /><br />So great coconut water, perfect size, and cheaper than buying locally at sprouts with the Amazon's 'subscribe and save'!"
,,,,,Good taste,I like the slight pineapple flavor in this better than the plain coconut water. Good well chilled. Coconut water is supposed to be a healthy drink.
,,,,,"a great product, and convenient shipment","Love this juice. Scheduled shipment is convenient and economical. This is a very expensive beverage and any way to save some money on it, is worth it"
,,,,,Best tasting coconut water I have found!,"I have tried every brand of coconut water that health food stores carry, and this is, by far, my favorite.  The pineapple flavor does not overwhelm the coconut or vice versa. I also like the tetra pack with the screw on top- it is much more convenient than the smaller 11 oz size which you cannot reseal.  This has been a great Gatorade substitute for me, and helps a lot when I am sick or dehydrated or need to hydrate quickly. Great stuff!"
,,,,,like it,Shipping great and loved product. The boxes are a little tough because there is not a lid if you do not finish.  I suggest buy only little ones this way.
,,,,,"Hydrating, Refreshing, Great-Tasting Drink","I discovered Vita Coco a few months ago.  Of the flavors I have tried, I like the Pineapple best.  It tastes like a mild pina colada without the alcohol.  I love the idea of an all-natural hydrating drink that is low in sugar and high in potassium.  Whenever I am hot, thirsty or a little run-down, I find that Vita Coco Coconut Water with Pineapple really quenches my thirst, refreshes me, and gives me a little energy boost without added sugar or any artificial ingredients like the ones in Gatorade and other drinks aimed at balancing electrolytes.  An 8-1/2-ounce serving  has only 60 calories and 30 mg of Sodium (less than fat-free milk), with 515 mg of Potassium and 180% of the RDA of Vitamin C.  It's a little pricey, but if you can buy it on sale with free shipping, it's a great value.  Although I have previously purchased it on Amazon, I more recently bought it at GNC during Gold Card Week when there was a free shipping offer and a ""buy 2, get 1 free"" offer.  With a deal like that, it breaks down to less than 65 cents per 8-1/2-oz serving."
,,,,,My favorite flavor!!,Pineapple is hands down my favorite flavor of Vita Coco! It not only serves a great electrolyte replenishing beverage (aka the PERFECT hangover cure) but it can also be made into a pinacolada if you just add some rum :)
,,,,,Just as advertised,"I really like this coconut water, but I was surprised that per 17oz box it's the same price at Wegman's.  Probably won't be ordering again unless there's some sort of discount."
,,,,,Awesome tasting!,"Heard about this drink from a friend and had to try it. Had one while traveling and loved it!!! I sat on the plane enjoying it...I was thinking, I should bought another one!"
,,,,,Um package change from 17oz to 16.9oz??,I subscribe to this monthly but just got an email stating that it's changing from 17 oz. to 16.9 oz. - but no price change?  WOW that's a really lame cut to increase their profit margins.  Whatever I won't miss the .1 oz. obviously but how about messaging and acknowledging your devoted consumers.
,,,,,vita coco,"I tasted the pineapple flavor yesterday at a friend's cocktail party. She used it to mix with rum to make pina coladas. It complimented the drink so well!! The bottles are really pretty to set up and hand out at a party as well =)<br /><br />I have been drinking Vita Coco for a while now and usually drink the 100% pure, but I find the flavors to be such a treat (yet still very healthy)! Especially after a long workout."
,,,,,"I was addicted to this stuff for a while, but wore myself out","It's high-quality and the price is right, especially with subscribe-and-save via Prime, but after months of trying to keep up with my subscription, I had to put it on hold.  I'm not a big water drinker, but this stuff has a distinct flavor and when you're using it as a work-out beverage four or five times a weak it eventually wears on you.  Or me, at least. I'd still recommend it, just don't OD the way I did."
,,,,,The answer to all your Cramping problems.,"Originally I was turned of by this product when I tasted the regular flavor. Once I had the version with pineapples, I was instantly hooked. I used to get a lot of stomach cramps and cramps in my feet. Since I have incorporated this drink daily it has aided my digestive system and obliterated all of my previous cramp problems. I would recommend Vita Coco to all of my friends and family."
,,,,,Vita Coco with Pineapple - the BEST yet!,"Of all the flavors Vita Coco produces, the Pineapple combination is by far the best - it has just enough flavor to keep it interesting but not overpowering."
,,,,,vita coco,The pineapple coconut combination is refreshing. I especially like that there is no added sugar. This is a welcomed change from other brands.
,,,,,Refreshing and Delicious,I like this product so much I have it delivered monthly!  So happy to be drinking this at work while my co-workers are stuck with pop!  It's so refreshing and revitalizing!  The only coconut water flavor I like is pineapple!  Transports easily and stores easily with the screw-on top.
,,,,,My Favorite,I always feel refreshed when I drink this coconut water. The pineapple gives it an added extra that makes it truly irresistible. It has been a firm favorite of mine now for nearly a year.
,,,,,Best Flavor- Light but Refreshing,"I tried quite a few varieties of this brand and the pineapple is the best.  Light but refreshing.  I am not sure if I think it is a miracle elixer or anything but I did purchase a case and look forward to drinking this on a regular basis.  Thank you for the great value and convenience, Amazon."
,,,,,cold and refreshing,I use vita coco coconut water with pineapple to mix with my ultra-meal nutritional supplement it mixes well and taste great.I have it for breakfast every morning.
,,,,,Not the greatest.,"This product doesn't have the greatest taste. I like Jamba coconut water, but it's hard product to find. I purchased this to try out and I'm not liking it, but it's tolerable when it's cold; really cold (reason why I gave it two stars).  I tried the coconut water when it was warm to see if it really tastes bad like some of the reviews said and sure enough, they were right."
,,,,,Yummy!,If you haven't had coconut water with pineapple juice before then you need to try this! Simply delicious and so healthy for you!
,,,,,"Same Great Taste, just More of it!","Bigger is always better, and that is not what she said, I did.  I got turned on to coconut water about a year ago and since then have not been able to get enough of it.  I found that Vita Coco, is the best brand around.  The pineapple flavor has a great sweetness that compliments the coconut water to create a refreshing, thirst quenching beverage.  I have recently began to drink more due to the nature of my job so I don't cramp up in my hands. plus with all the nutrients and benefits, whats there not too like. With subscribe and save,  I can quench my thirst any time of year.  Thanks vita coco, you surely have a lovely bunch of coconuts!!!"
,,,,,Best coconut water flavor and size,"I love the taste of the Viva Coco with Pineapple. If I was likening it to a common drink, it's a melted virgin Pina Colada.<br />The 17 oz boxes are better for me than the other sizes, because they contain the resealable lids in case you don't drink it all at once.<br />As with all coconut waters, the taste can vary slightly, but the pineapple seems to keep it pretty consistant."
,,,,,Unusual flavor......,Good thirst quencher. Milky and thicker then I expected. Not what I would call a pineapple flavor but one can get the idea it is pineapple.
,,,,,My afternoon pick-up,"I love the Pineapple/Coconut water. It is high in potassium. I am a rural mail carrier and have to be out in the hot weather. In the afternoon I get hot, dry, and thirsty. I am trying to lose weight so I'm watching my calories. Water is wet and cold but doesn't quench my thirst. This stuff does the trick. It quenches my thirst and gives me a little pick-up for the afternoon and keeps me going. This only has 60 calories per serving, so that is much less than a 180 calorie Gatorade. I recommend this to those looking for a healthy alternative to the sugary sports drinks."
,,,,,thirst quenching,"i love the pineapple the best. had a hard time finding this at the store,they get ya hooked and then stop carring it.i have tried the other brands of coconut water but i'm just not loving them,so i went online hoping to find this brand and there it was.now mom's happy and so is everyone else!  love the vita coco!"
,,,,,Coconut Water with Pineapple...Yummy!,Short and brief.  The product has a wonderful coconut taste and the pineapple addition is light and mildly sweet.  I will certainly purchase this again.
,,,,,"Finally, a coconut water I like","I've always wanted to like coconut water - low in calories, high in minerals - but I've just never liked the taste much. The pineapple juice in this really makes a difference. It still needs to be well chilled to be good, but it makes a healthy post-workout drink."
,,,,,delicious!!!,I love buying these and drinking them after my workout.  You lose not just fluids but minerals/vitamins and this helps replenish you.  Water is good too for you too but I just love these post-workout.  They are also good for anytime when you could use a sweet but natural drink (like you don't want milk or soda or water but want something tasty and refreshing).
,,,,,Coconut Water,"After reading about the benefits of coconut water, I decided to give this brand a try.  I have tried a few other brands with a juice added, but they all have lot of extra sodium.  Be sure to read the labels.  Some have less potassium in them than the Via Coco brand.  I felt like this was better for my husband to drink than Gatorade. He works on a/c during the summer and is out in the heat all day long."
,,,,,Yummy,Love the pineapple flavor. Makes me feel like I am on vacation drinking a pina colada. (You probably could add a little rum and.....)Really tastes better than other pineapple coconut waters I have tried!!
,,,,,Good for use in smoothies,"This product is a good addition to fruit smoothies.  It thins it out while adding good taste and electrolytes, which are good during the very hot weather."
,,,,,Awesome,"I love this water! I started buying it after my Bikram yoga classes to rehydrate, and now drink it whenever I feel a little dehydrated.  Living in AZ, I tend to not drink enough water so these help tremendously and are delicious too!  Try them! You'll be hooked :)"
,,,,,Vita Coco Water is Awsome,Vita coco water is taste great by itself or mixed up in a smoothie. It is great for re-hydration after a workout and has more potassium than a Banana.
,,,,,EXCELLENT,IT SAYS ON THE BOX EACH DRINK CONTAINS: THE POTASIUM OF 2 BANANAS & MORE ELECTROLITES THAN A SPORTS DRINK. THEY MIGHT SEEM A LITTLE HIGH PRICED BUT GO TO GROECERY STORE BUY 2 BANANAS & 2 SPORTS DRINKS AND YOU WILL PAY MORE TO GET THE SAME NUTRITION YOU GET FROM 1 JUICE BOX OF THIS COCONUT WATER...
,,,,,Delicious and Rejuvenating,"Great before, during, and after a workout. Great natural electrolytes, Very high in potassium, amazing drink! This is my favorite flavor, tangerine is 2nd"
,,,,,great taste. nice fruit flavor. serve chilled,Great real coconut young coconut taste. Not the usual overwhelming sweet taste seen on other coconut water canned drinks.  Good on the environment. Made in Brazil. Even better.  You can really taste the fruit labelled on the product besides the coconut water taste
,,,,,Vita coco is best,"Not only does Vita coco have the best taste ..much better than ONE<br />and slightly better than Zito, but now they have the best package<br />also!!<br /><br />This new screw top is great to take to the gym, hiking and biking.<br /><br />Coc water is the best re-hyrator and IMO Vita coco is the best.<br />I also noticed when I searched coconut water on amazon.com that<br />vita coco comes up number one, so others seem to think that vita<br />coco is number one also because they are voting with thier purchases."
,,,,,Nutritional content of this brand does not live up to what's on the label.,"According to an article on CNN.com on 8/5/11, the nutritional content of this brand does not live up to what is on the lable.<br />""Researchers at ConsumerLab.com tested the sodium, potassium, magnesium, and sugar content of three leading brands of coconut water, and they found that only one, Zico Natural, contained the stated amount for all four ingredients.<br /><br />The sugar and potassium content in the other two brands, Vita Coco and O.N.E., also matched the label. But the amounts of sodium and magnesium--two nutrients key to hydration--were as much as 82% and 35% lower, respectively, than the listed amount."""
,,,,,GROSS,"I bought this at a local gas station near my house and was excited to try it because I see it everywhere. It was nasty. I will never drink this crap again, I don't care how ""good"" it is for you. The taste is disgusting and I'd rather just drink regular water. Blah!"
,,,,,So Addicted,I'm so addicted to these!!! You know the movie When Harry Met Sally? When I drink one of these it just feels like that famous scene in the movie... orgasmic!
,,,,,well ...,"This stuff is pretty disgusting.  I don't care if Madonna, Tom Cruise or whatever celebrity invested in the company and carries a container of it around for photo opps, it tastes bad.  And as far as rehydrating better than water, umm, don't think so.  It might replenish potassium, although, unless you are participating in the Olympics, you probably are not going to risk a potassium deficiency from physical activity."
,,,,,yuck,"I had hoped that this would taste like Pina Coladas but it doesn't.  It is rather nasty and left a film on my tongue.  I wanted something to drink after a work out or to give to my kids when we are traveling but it is to hard for me to swallow.  The reason I gave it 2 stars is because it is good in mixed drinks.  I have been able to add it to smoothies and drinks with alcohol.  If you are going to drink this straight, it helps if it is really cold....almost frozen.  If you really like the taste of coconut milk you might like this because that is the only thing I can taste in it,"
,,,,,These are great.,My 26 year old horse Little Joe loves these and they are helping him. I wish they come in bigger bags.
,,,,,Hip & Joint w/ Glucosamine,I am leasing a 15 year old mare who is extremely stiff (and quite out of shape).  I started her on these 2 weeks ago and have noticed a big improvement with her movement.  I don't know if it is mainly because she is getting into shape or if the Glucosamine is helping.  She loves them so I plan on continuing to give these to her for the remainder of the lease and to my next horse if he/she is in the older category.  It can only be good for them.
,,,,,Great treat with benefits,I got this for my 23 year old gelding.  He loves it and it seems to be helping him.  His appetite and joints appear to be improving. I wish they sold this in 30lb or 50lb sizes.  Then all of our horses could have this everyday.
,,,,,Christmas treat,"I purchased this for Christmas 2011.  I love peppermint bark and like to try a new kind every year.  Its a very special yearly treat for me, so I expect a lot from the product.<br /><br />Pros for Scott's Cakes version:  Good organization and logistics:  the package arrived quickly, the candy was well wrapped in the shipping box and shrink-wrapped in a box of its own.  Candy was in good condition (i.e., no broken pieces) and fresh.<br /><br />This seller's peppermint bark achieves a nice mix of peppermint and white chocolate flavor.  White chocolate gives off a nice mellow tone; it is good quality.  There is no dark chocolate layer to upset the balance of peppermint and white chocolate flavors in one's mouth.  This attracted me to Scott's Cakes.<br /><br />Cons:  The quality of the peppermint pieces in the chocolate was very disappointing.  The ad mentions that the buyer should expect to see pieces of candy cane/peppermint starlight mints mixed with white chocolate.  The photo seems to support this claim, showing robustly sized pieces of candy cane in the bark.  I expected a very crunchy chewing experience, which I think is the hallmark of the best types of peppermint bark.  However, the pieces of peppermint candy are in reality very small; there is no sensation of crispness when taking a bite.  The peppermint candy has a chewy consistency, making it seem more like taffy.  Thus, there is no auditory pleasure in consuming this version of peppermint bark."
,,,,,Very interesting blend,"I was first reading reviews @ the Starbucks website for this coffee, and it had great reviews, so I though I might give it a try. I went to downtown and bought a bag of whole bean Caffe Verona and boy I am glad I made that decision.<br /><br />Out of the bag, the rich dark brown colors and the aroma punished me of the years I lived without this. A blend of 80% Yukon Blend, an array of Latin American and Indonesian coffees; and, 20% Italian Roast - a blend of Latin American coffees.<br /><br />In the cup the flavor was weak, bold as it smelled it did not seem to have the same score in taste. Light bodyweight with a woody feel to it. The light acidity is topped off with a fruity overtone and bittersweetness.<br /><br />Let me be as bold as to recommend Peet's Arabian Mocha-Java. If you are looking for a Multiblend similar to this, Peet's fixes whatever lacked in Starbuck's Verona. This Mocha-Java is balanced, nutty and smooth. It has excellent acidity, with a slight bite.<br /><br />If you want a closer mix to this than I would mix the Arabian Mocha-Java with Sumatra and you will be very satisfied with its resemblance.<br /><br />There are many coffee drinkers who hate Starbucks because of their corporate culture and popularity. I just like to try anything which looks interesting to me and this caffe Verona is one of the better speciality blends Starbucks has offered.<br /><br />I almost forgot to mention, whole beans always rule . Even if you ground your beans at your nearest cafe or supermarket, the moment the ground coffee comes in contact with the air, the aroma starts to leak. Grind your beans moments before you put it to use, you will see notice the change in taste and aroma when you are drinking it."
,,,,,My favorite Starbucks variety,"First of all, in response to the query of why you would order this online posed by the reviewer below...not everyone lives near a Starbucks. Hard to believe I know, considering they seem to be on every street corner, but believe it or not there are still large sections of the US w/out Starbucks. So for those of us who want good coffee, Thank God for the internet & amazon. Verona is my favorite SB blend. It doesn't taste burnt as some of their coffee does to me. It has a boldness without being too dark & overwhelming, and it has subtle notes of chocolate without the icky sweetness of a flavored coffee. It makes a delicious cup of coffee."
,,,,,good coffee but..,"This is my favorite starbucks roast, but why dont you just go to your local starbucks to purchase this, its the same price if you just go there and you dont have to pay for shipping and handeling and all that stuff, plus they will grind it for you there."
,,,,,Bring Back Verona,"As a perusal of comment about Verona Dark will show, the fans of regular Verona are terribly disappointed that their favorite coffee is being discontinued. It's your company and you can run it any way you please. Conclusion: Unless there is a specific reason to discontinue regular Verona, the decision to do so is (for me terribly) ill-advised.<br /><br />There. How's that for potentially positive and useful feedback?<br /><br />PS: I cannot choose the product you want me to specify, because you mention only DARK Verona."
,,,,,starbucks french roast,"i love this coffee.  i drink it black. i drink it 7 days a week, a few cups a day in the morning.  it's bold and strong and i wouldn't want it any other way.  it's delicious.  it may not be for everyone, but i give it 5 stars."
,,,,,Best coffee I've tasted. I try others but always come back.,If you like a strong but smooth flavorful coffee this is it. I have tried others and just keep coming back to this one. My second joice would be the Starbucks Italian blend.
,,,,,"Well, if this doesn't wake you up, NOTHING will.","The folks at Starbucks are not exaggerating when they say their French Roast coffee is ""Extra Bold.""  In fact, they should probably call it `Extremely Bold'...or maybe even `Ridiculously Bold.'  The directions on the package recommend 2 tablespoons of coffee for every 6 ounces of filtered water.  The result is likely to disintegrate your ceramic mug before you can drink it, but it doesn't taste too bad...that is until the bitter aftertaste kicks in and makes your throat burn.  If you weaken it by adding some hot water, as the package suggests, the bitter taste becomes more pronounced, like coffee that's been left heating in the pot too long.  The only way to drink this coffee is with plenty of cream and sugar.  With enough cream and sugar, French Roast is pretty good; but I wouldn't recommend this particular Starbucks variety if you like your coffee black...unless you wanna stay awake for a week."
,,,,,Gifts of Coffee,I sent this coffee to two friends back east.  they thoroughly enjoyed getting it and said it was delicious.
,,,,,Different packaging but that's okay,"The product I received came in a different package than what is pictured but that is fine because it was a little bigger than what I expected. The oil doesnt really have a smell so that is good because I intend to use it in a mixture of oils for my natural hair. The delivery was fast and even arrived a day prior to the scheduled delivery date. I've only used it once so far and mixed it 50/50 with Olive Oil as a hot oil treatment, it wasn't greasy at all and left my hair nice and soft. I gave it 4 stars because I haven't had time to use it enough. I will update this review after I have used it for awhile and can make a better assessment."
,,,,,Not so good!,I would not recommend this oil.  It does not have a pleasant smell and does not purify the skin.  It's just like other oils I have bought from drug stores which were cheaper.
,,,,,Tasteless,Do not order this! It has absolutely no taste and was COMPLETELY disappointing!I tried to return the unopened 5 boxes and Amazon would not let me...total bummer and waste of money.
,,,,,Dogs Love Them,"These inexpensive little rewards for dogs seem to be a good quality and very palatable.<br /><br />I've had problems pleasing my dogs as far as tasty treats, some snacks are just completely ignored.<br /><br />I've had no problem with my dog accepting these snacks and actually they consume it eagerly and quick, so it passes the taste test.<br /><br />Sergean't's is an established and trusted name in pet care products and this is a fine product your dog will probably love."
,,,,,Best treat to keep a dog busy!,My 4 month old female lab/shep/hound mix loves these.  She likes to fling them around like a cat and they keep her busy for a good ten minutes.  They are also a bit chewier than other treats so she takes her time finishing them and considers them an ultimate reward when she does something good.  They can be hard to find in stores but are readily available on Amazon.
,,,,,YUM,"For those of you that have never tried spiedies (which is most anyone that is NOT from the Endicott, NY area), you should do yourself a favor and use Salamida's Spiedie Marinade.  Cut up some chicken into chunks, marinade for 48 hours and bbq on skewers...serve on italian bread or rolls...YUM.  So nice to be able to get this sauce shipped to the house in California!"
,,,,,Super good,"I love this stuff. It's not your regular milk chocolate hot cocoa, but if you like trying different flavors of cocoa, you should give this a try.  To me it tastes like dark chocolate and isn't as sweet as the regular stuff. But it has a great taste and it's actually good for you. Highly recomend it."
,,,,,Gano Schokolade,I put this product in my coffee & it tastes fantastic! Coffee is kindof boring without it. Excellent product & super good for you!
,,,,,go to Amazon when you can't find in locally,"I was so frustrated - they hooked me on this product at the local Walmart and then stopped carrying it.  I could not find it at any of the local stores, so I went to Amazon - and there it was!  I have enough to last for a good while now and it was exactly as advertised and arrived in good time."
,,,,,EXCELLENT LOW CAL TREAT,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001FSK3I0"">100 Calorie Packs Honey Maid Delight Bars, Cheesecake, 6-Count Bars (Pack of 10)</a><br /><br />These low cal cheesecake flavored bars taste decadent without adding inches to your waist line.  They actually do taste like a cheesecake bar should taste which is refreshing.  Many of the low cal foods do not live up to their description. When you purchase something and it says cheesecake you should get the taste that your are expecting which is cheesecake.  Not chemical, not overwhelmingly sweet, but just right.  I found these cheesecake delight bars to be exactly as described. The taste of cheesecake was there and the bar more then adequately fulfills my craving for sweets minus that overwhelming unnatural sweet taste that is present in many low cal bars. If you are a fan of cheesecake but not the very high calorie count associated with cheesecake (which I have been told by those in the know, is one of if not the cake that has the highest caloric count) then this is for you. These bars will definitely be part of my shopping list in the future."
,,,,,"""This product is delicious""",Absolutely love this product. It is a nice treat for those who are looking for low calorie sweet snack. The name is perfect and says it all...Delight Bars.
,,,,,"Overly Sweet, Flavorless","I guess I'm in the minority, but I really didn't like these much. I was so excited for a cheesecake flavor when I saw it, but these were disappointing. The bars are super sickly sweet with a weird chemically fake vanilla-ish undertaste. Absolutely NO cheesecake or cream cheese type flavor and even the graham layer is just sweet without any real graham cracker taste. The overall texture is slightly gritty and gummy -- not at all creamy. Sizewise they are smallish, but pretty standard for any of the many 100 calorie-ish snack pack foods. Similar in price as most granola and snack bars, none of which are ever much of a good value. Overall, while they aren't inedible or anything, I would not buy these again and I don't even think I'll bother with the rest of the box."
,,,,,Best treats ever!,Found these at Walmart and instantly loved these cookies. The taste is so good and it's a great example of a healthy choice to make without leaving out anything on the taste. Too bad these bars aren't widely available anymore. Luckily Amazon helps me out every time and delivers some boxes to my doorstep when my personal stock runs out. Wouldn't know what to have without these. It's without a doubt the best flavor in the series!
,,,,,My 10am daily snack!,This is the perfect snack for that 10am drop between breakfast and lunch.  It's creamy without being too sweet.  I'm so glad AMAZON offers this bar since all the grocery stores in my area have discontinued them. Give them a try!
,,,,,Sweet treats,"First had these in LA.  No grocery store in my area sells them.  Odd because Providence, RI is not a remote town.  Anyway, I was glad to find them on Amazon."
,,,,,I am looking for Nutritional Information on these please,"Hi,<br />Does anyone know what the nutritional info. is on these specifically?...sugar content per bar, carbs?<br /><br />Thanks"
,,,,,Great!,"My cat is 12 years old and very finicky about what she eats...she has never eaten dry food..she will starve before touching dry food. But..mostly she just meows as loud as she can and gets into mischief if she doesn't have what she wants to eat.... She loves this type of cat food, though. I don't know whether it is the cheese she likes, or the over all taste...but she devours it every time....I wish it was smooth instead of strips, as she seems to have trouble chewing it...I wish the grocery stores would stock more of it, as i usually buy for a month at a time..."
,,,,,"Loved by one, hated by the other","This is a new line for Friskies and is not a ""treat"" as the title implies. Just another can of cat food to try! My female loves this stuff, can't wait to get it in her dish, and gets quite angry whenever she gets anything else but this or the tuna variety. My male, forget it!  He loves the shredded turkey and cheese but won't go near this one.  Weirdest thing in the world to me - thought he'd go gaga over it like he does his turkey, but he just won't touch this stuff.  Anyway, this is a bit pricey here so check around for a better price.  At least in Ohio it's a bit high!  Highly recommend!"
,,,,,Not Treats! Cat Food!,"This may seem like a treat to my cats, but it really is food.  My two youngest cats prefer Tasty Treasures over all the Friskies flavors.  They sit and and eat until every last bit is gone.  I've never had a cat do that with any cat food.  I've been waiting for Amazon to carry all the flavors...at a reasonable price...so I can stop hauling them from my local Petstore.  I highly recommend this - especially if you have a picky eater."
,,,,,Fantastic gourmet chip - this flavor is one of the best.,"I purchased these chips for my mobile vending cart. Because I have Amazon Prime the cost per bag is really good as far as a reseller goes. Each flavor is really good in its own right. These chips the Asian Sweet and Spicy are just so tasty. Its just the right amount of sweet and the slightest bit of spice that makes these a fantastic tasting chip.<br /><br />Lets talk about details:<br /><br />Chip thickness (+)<br />These are gourmet chips and the quality is there from the moment you open the bag. Each one is crunchy and not too thick but just enough to let you know you didn't buy a bag of Lays.<br /><br />Grease (+)<br />These are NOT greasy chips. Depending on the flavor they are just mildy seasoned and not coated in a heavy grease or oil.<br /><br />Flavor (+)<br />Each flavor stands completely on its own. You could do a blind taste test of each one of these flavors sold by Deep River and I bet you could tell what it was. None of the flavors are overpowering except maybe the Jalapeno flavor which is honestly too hot and I love hot food.<br /><br />Resale (+)<br />You may not resell these but at the current price and using Prime shipping the cost per bag allows you to make a decent profit.<br /><br />Overall:<br />These are great tasting, unique flavored chips that are hands down better than the ones you can get in bulk at a Sams or BJ's. Do yourself a favor and try a bag or two. I bet you'll love em like we do.<br /><br />Thanks for reading my review."
,,,,,DEEP RIVER POTATO CHIPS,THEY ARE DELICIOUS NOT SALTY YOU CAN SIT AND EAT 2-3 2 OUNCE BAGS AT A TIME I GIVE THESE 5 STARS PLUS I HAVE TO STOP MYSELF FROM EATING THEM THEY ARE DELICIOUS.
,,,,,Good Chips,"I like these chips, even though they are a little different than chips I am used to. I love that they are reduced fat, but be warned, they are extremely crunchy. So crunchy that I have to turn the volume up on the TV to hear it when I'm chewing them. The taste is quite good though and I like crunchy salty food. I will probably order them again."
,,,,,Mesquite BBQ,"These chips are the best!! I've tried some of the other flavors and they are ok, nothing special... but the Mesquite BBQ is hands down the best BBQ chips I've ever had! if you like BBQ chips (and are not concerned with the calories most chips bring), then you will not be disappointed in these!"
,,,,,Superior chips - wow!,"Addictive and totally unexpected. I first tasted these at the Fancy Food Show in New York a couple of years ago. Was amazed to find them on Amazon - and bought immediately for our lunch clients. What you want in a potato chip: the crunch is fantastic and the flavor gives off both rosemary and olive oil, ending in a surprisingly smoky note."
,,,,,Love these!,"I took a chance on these and they are awesome.  They are crisp and not at all greasy.  I like the Lay's Kettle Chips, but these are really much better, less greasy, maybe a bit more crisp too.  The rosemary is good - it's not overpowering and it tastes like rosemary.  No MSG.  Hits the salty snack craving just right.  I like the size too - it's enough to satisfy a craving but keeps me from eating a whole big bag.  Which I'd probably do with these, if that's what I had.  I'll definitely order them again.  My husband and 16 year old both really like them too."
,,,,,Don't have to eat just one.......,These are delicious lower sodium/fat chips. Convenient lunch/snack size bag is enough for sharing. Halloween is two months away and the kids will be getting these for trick or treating at our house.  By the case means they're always on hand.
,,,,,"Spicy, Hot Chips!","The chips are deliciously spicy and super crispy.  It takes a second for the heat to hit but<br />when it does, it's AWESOME!  Love these chips and will continue to buy for a long time."
,,,,,Keep it simple,"Just to keep it simple...more of a comparison than a total review.  I love jalapeno chips - look mostly for the level of spice, then pepper flavor, good crunch, and not loaded down with salt.<br /><br />With that said, these Deep River Snacks chips (jalapeno flavor) are:<br />1. Better than the Lays Jalapeno.  (Deep RIver have the same spice level, which is lacking.  Neither have a lot of pepper flavor.)<br />2. About the same as the jalapeno chips that the ""World Market"" branded chips.  (World Market has a little more spice, but also a lot more salt.)<br />3. Not nearly as good as Tim's Cascade Jalapeno chips.  (Tims has more pepper flavor, more spice, a little bit better crunch...but also have MSG.)<br /><br />It's not to say these chips are bad, but just what the 3-stars says ""It's OK.""  There are better, there are worse...to me, these are right in the middle of the pack."
,,,,,yummy,Deep river snacks are the best chips ever!!! I'm addicted to the zesty jalapeno and haven't tried other flavors. I recommend this brand to everyone.
,,,,,flavor and crunch!,These are everything I want in a potato chip; Flavor that jumps out at you and they stay crunchy!!<br />Do yourself a favor(and flavor) and try these chips!!
,,,,,Great Flavor,"Whole family loved 'em. Hard enough to break your teeth (in a good way, they are kettle chips after all).  24 for $17? We'll definitely buy again."
,,,,,"Great Tasting, just wish they were thicker cut.","These are very good chips. The Asian Sweet & Spicy--not too sweet, not too spicy, or salty--perfectly balanced seasoning. We received very fresh packages.  I just like thicker cut potato chips especially being kettle cooked, but that will not deter me from ordering again."
,,,,,"Great taste, great price.",I really like these chips and so do my customers. Tangy and spicy chips with a sweet finish.  I look for 2 oz. bags like these.
,,,,,Great Tasting,My husband was just diagnosed as gluten intolerant and he thought his life was over.  Surprize he loved these chips and couldn't believe it.  I did too and am not allergic to foods.  Can't say enough good things about this chip.
,,,,,Hard to find item,I find deep river snacks everywhere but hardly ever find the cracked pepper and sea salt.  Glad that Amazon carries it.  If you like spicy and peppery these are the chips for you.
,,,,,Crispy and tart,"Deep River Salt & Vinegar chips are thick and crunchy.  Very tart.  So tart that I can't eat them alone. They are perfect with a sandwich though. These chips are well coated with the seasonings, maybe too much seasonings for some folks tastes.  I suggest buying a small bag before purchasing a large quantity of these.  They aren't for everyone.  Enjoy!"
,,,,,Exceeded my expectations. One of the best chips I have had,"I was very skeptical about buying a brand of chips I had never tasted before, much less buying it in bulk.<br />However, I had not regretted it.<br />These chips are one of the best I had tried and certainly exceeded my expectations.<br />They're reasonably priced too so that is a big plus!"
,,,,,"Awesome Goodness! (deep river kettle chips, swt maui onion [pack of 24])","Before you turn to other name brands out there, give these a try. Although the Maui Onion can be a bit salty at times, i can still say these are amongst the crunchiest and tastiest chips I have ever had. Now i have tried both the barbeque and Asian style flavor, but still I must say these are the best. If you are looking for something to snack on that tastes good, these are the ones for you. Its better than the pringle's commercial, since these are harder to put down once you start."
,,,,,"Pretty good, but prefer other jalapeno chips","I was expecting some ""serious flavor"" as it was advertised on the bag.. but compared to other jalapeno chips I've had, it's pretty bland. The ingredients list is short, which is a plus, and it's fairly low in sodium (160mg per 1oz serving) which is probably why I prefer this less, as I like saltier chips. Overall I'd say this is a good choice if you like a healthier version of a jalapeno chip.. but if you like strong flavor like I do, stick with Kettle brand jalapeno chips."
,,,,,"Excellent chips, full of flavor and just the right thickness and doneness","I purchased the Salt and Vinegar chips and have been very pleased. There is the right amount of vinegar, virtually every single chip I have tasted is done just right, no burned chips, and they have an excellent thickness to impart just the correct amount of potato taste.<br /><br />They go great with lunches or as a snack. They are very economical. Beats the heck in terms of quality, taste, and price to buying these at work or out and about (I bought the 2 ounce bags). I will be trying some of the other intriguing flavors. Recommended."
,,,,,good chips,"This is a heavy kettle style chip that is not as ""heavy"" as kettle brand chips, but bas good flavor.  I will reorder."
,,,,,Great Chips,I recently bought these chips.  Came home and only three bags were left in the box.  My whole family loves them.  They have great flavor and better and healthier than more chips. I'm ordering a few more boxes today
,,,,,Very good taste-twist chips,"These are not the ""same old"" chips by far and the Asian Sweet & Spicy sparked my imagination too, makes you appreciate the new and improved variety of potatoe chips. This flavor is easily an ""8"" on the ten-scale."
,,,,,chips,"I love Rosemary chips, but can't find any at my location. I was glad I came across these, at such a great price."
,,,,,Great Tasting Potato CHIPS.,The potato chips are wonderfully tasty.  My sons and I both like the Rosemary and Olive Oil because it is not as spicy.  We also got the Jalapeno.  It is not so much I don't like the Jalapeno.  It is spicy hot for me.  I still love the potato chips.
,,,,,Best Jalapeno chips,Being what you would call a chip connoisseur was looking forward to trying these.  Great chips.
,,,,,just the right size package; great chips,Very nice chips; just the right size to serve with a sandwich and watch my calories.
,,,,,Flavorful but Salty,"My order was carried out in a fast and effective manner. I received my shipment of chips within two days and had no problems with the retailer.<br /><br />The chips (Sweet Onion variety) are flavorful and particularly crunchy. The only negative--a subjective one--is that the chips may be too salty. Other than that, I would recommend buying these chips again."
,,,,,Superior chips - wow!,"This is a re-post of the review I left for the 5 oz bags ... Addictive and totally unexpected. I first tasted these at the Fancy Food Show in New York a couple of years ago. Was amazed to find them on Amazon - and bought immediately for our lunch clients. What you want in a potato chip: the crunch is fantastic and the flavor gives off both rosemary and olive oil, ending in a surprisingly smoky note."
,,,,,According to the Manufacturer's own website these have no Olive Oil!!!!,"Ingredients on Deep River Snacks's website are: Potatoes, sunflower oil and/or corn oil, whey, sea salt, onion powder, sugar, garlic powder, torula yeast, dried parsley, maltodextrix, canola oil, soybean oil, rosemary extract and ""natural flavors"".<br /><br />False adversing much?"
,,,,,too much of a good thing,"These chips are very spicy to say the least, my tongue burned too much to finish the small individual serving bag. They have an overpowering amount of some Asian spice, perhaps ginger, but it is way too strong and you are left with a very unpleasant taste. I bought 24 of the small size bags but could not bring myself to like the flavor, it all ended up in the trash.  This is definitely a chip that will appeal to only certain palates. I do like the sweet onion flavor of this brand but this Asian flavor was too much of a good thing!"
,,,,,Yum!,"I loved kettle chips from the moment I tried them but I felt absolutely disgusting every time I had the Kettle Brand. Though very tasty and crunchy, they were also very oily. With Deep River Snacks, they've got the crunch and taste without that repulsive burst of oil in your mouth with each crunch that Kettle Brand had. I LOVE the Sweet Onion Maui and Mesquite BBQ. The Jalapeno flavor does spicy justice and the Rosemary & olive Oil is very unique for a chip. I wish they had a sour cream and onion flavor but I love them regardless."
,,,,,"Delicious, great texture, 3 ingredients","I did a search on Amazon for Kettle reduced fat chips, hoping to find a good deal on Kettle brand chips.  I stumbled upon these Deep River reduced fat kettle chips, and liked the per bag price (works out to about $1.50 per bag, about half the price of a similarly sized bag of Kettle brand chips at my local grocery store).  I am so glad I ordered these.  I love the taste, and I love the texture, and never would have guessed they were reduced fat.  I particularly like the short list of ingredients: Potatoes, Sunflower or Corn oil, and Salt.  That's it.<br /><br />I do wish Amazon would make it easy to find the nutritional information...so, here are the basics: 12-chip serving (28g) is 120 calories, 6g fat, 1g fiber.<br /><br />I will definitely order these again."
,,,,,Good product.,"They are a healthier chip with less salt and fat, which I like better than the over-salted regular chips on the market.  The flavor is great and they are nice and crunchy. Absolutely worth a try!"
,,,,,Excellent chips!,Love these chips.  Good for a quick snack and I don't fee TOO guilty eating them since they have less fat and salt than regular chips.  Highly recommended.
,,,,,Deep River Salt & Vinegar Chips,"You know you have a great salt & vinegar chip when after one individual bag your mouth is all puckered up!<br />Deep River makes a great chip and comes in packages just the right size for one person to enjoy. And, being kettle chips, just makes each bite a great taste and texture combination you are sure to enjoy.<br />Try some now.<br />http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002C50XA8/ref=cm_cr_rev_prod_title"
,,,,,Yuk,The sweet Maui onion tastes like sour cream and onion.  I was hoping to get the delicious chips that I enjoyed in Maui.  Don't wast your time.
,,,,,Disappointed,"Olive oil in large bold print on the front of the bag is misleading!!  Olive oil is NOT the main oil the chips are cooked in.  The product has more sunflower, corn and canola oils than it does olive oil!! The ingredients are NOT listed in the description.  I should have known better.<br />There are other, much better ""Olive Oil"" potato chips on the market that use ONLY olive oil. I was quite disappointed in this brand."
,,,,,Too many rotten chips!,"I love salt & vinegar kettle chips so I decided to try these after reading good reviews. When I received them, I noticed from the very first bag that over half of the chips were inedible due to rotten potatoes! I know how kettle chips should look, and I know what normal marks look like on chips. These were rotten. After waiting over a month for a response from the company, I finally found a phone number and called them, only to be told there was nothing they could do. The sad thing is, the chips that were edible were actually flavorful and tasty. Obviously they just don't care about consistent quality, so stay away from these chips!"
,,,,,"FLAVOR TOO STRONG, COATING TOO MESSY","The kettle chip itself is crisp, crunchy and good, although somewhat greasy.  Over coated with the flavoring causing mouth burn when it was not expected in a chip with Rosemary flavoring.  Leaves greasy, gritty residue on fingers after two or three chips."
,,,,,"Crunchy, but a bit on the salty side","I ordered these because I had purchased a bag of Sweet maui Onion chips from the supermarket. They were so good that I had to get another.<br /><br />The order came and I popped open a bag. They are very crunchy, so if you're into that, these are the chips for you. However, they do tend to get really salty. I found myself having quite a few sips of beer when eating these"
,,,,,Misleading Allergen Info,I bought these potato chips because they sounded tasty and because of the natural sounding ingredients... but also specifically because they are gluten free.  I have a son with food allergies and he cannot gluten... or Milk.  I was so upset when I received these to find out that they contain Milk!  I do not see this information anywhere on the product page.
,,,,,Nice and Waxy,"I've got to believe these other reviewers haven't actually looked at the list of ingredients that make up these chips. Here they are:<br /><br />INGREDIENTS: SUGAR, PARTIALLY HYDROGENATED PALM KERNEL OIL, COCONUT OIL, LACTOSE, WHEY, NATURAL AND ARTIFICIAL FLAVORS (INCLUDING BARLEY PROTEIN), NON-FAT MILK, BUTTERMILK SOLIDS, SODIUM CASEINATE, SOY LECITHIN-AN EMULSIFIER, SALT, ARTIFICIAL COLORS (YELLOW 5 LAKE, YELLOW 6 LAKE, BLUE 2 LAKE)<br /><br />Now I must admit that I didn't look at the label either.  I've been using Nestle's chocolate chips for years, and I thought it was a name I could trust.  Apparently not.<br /><br />So let me tell you how I discovered what the ingredients were.  I was making brownies for the kids for a semi-special occasion so I bought the premium white morsels --thinking they were white chocolate-- and these butterscotch ones.  I dumped them in my batter and noticed when I took the brownies out that the chips didn't seem to have melted.  I didn't think anything of it until I sampled some of the white morsels for a snack.  Very waxy on the tongue.  Not nice like good chocolate would be.  So I tried the butterscotch ones.  Where the heck was the flavor?<br /><br />Well I was shocked when I read the label.  I had no idea that the white chocolate had been reformulated to be Chocolate Free, and I assume that in the past these chips actually had some sort of natural butterscotch element to them, instead of being made of barley protein and artificial flavorings.<br /><br />I mean look at the ingredients; there's more artificial flavors by volume than butter and milk.  And there's a whopping 8 grams of sugar in 1 teaspoon of these things.  Which would be acceptable for cooking sweets if it wasn't for the 4 grams of Trans-Fats laden goo that was also in them.<br /><br />In any case, I've thrown out the rest of these two bags.  If the health concerns weren't bad enough, they don't taste good.  Really sweet more than flavorful, and waxy on the tongue when you eat them au naturel.<br /><br />Pam T~<br />mom/blogger/brownie baker"
,,,,,melted,"I love nestle chips, but the top of the box's bags and the bottoms were half way melted, and I couldn't find anyone in Amazon to complain to.  I really wish I could figure out where you complain to Amazon.  I know how to complain to the stores but not to Amazon itself."
,,,,,Yuck,"I was wondering how my cookies which were a spin on the America's Test Kitchen perfect chocolate chip cookie recipe could have come out tasting like crud. Well it was the butterscotch chips. I basically took ATK's recipe and adjusted it for oatmeal insead of the chocolate chip by using their base and adding oats, raisins, chopped mac nuts, cinnamon and these chips. It would have been just as amazing as the chocolate chip cookie recipe if I would have ommitted these chips. Now as another reviewer said, the cookies with the chips in it are destined for the trash."
,,,,,Wonderful Coffee,This was great coffee and I would order this again! My husband loves this particular one because it is mild and has a great flavor as well.
,,,,,Passable!,"This lemon salt is ok, but the salt is not infused with the lemon, the lemon is mixed with salt granuals.  So might as well use lemon."
,,,,,Seems expensive,These are great treats - in fact they are the only thing I use for my dog.  But this price seem way wrong - so far off as to possibly be incorrect??  In my local PetSmart they are $5.99.
,,,,,Satisfied.,"I saw the price on Amazon, and I jumped at it!  It was a great deal compared to others that I found on the Internet.  Bought the box of Jelly Belly Tangerine Jelly Beans as wedding favors.  Great Steal!"
,,,,,Gets the job done,"My fiance' loves fortune cookies so I figured this would be a great creative way to pop the question. Well, she loved the idea when I finally did it last friday (although, somehow she had me figured out from the beginning lol).<br /><br />Anyway, I wasn't particularly thrilled about the quality of these cookies. The seams weren't completely shut. I could see the word ""Will"" through the backside of the cookie.<br /><br />Also, a huge warning for someone looking for an authentic cookie to give.... the wrapper is just that, a plain plastic wrapper. I was expecting some Chinese lettering or some kind of design to make it a little more believeable.<br /><br />And last but not least, the price. For the quality you're getting, I'd be more inclined to try the trick (tutorials online) of opening up a cookie and placing the message inside myself. At least then I could put exactly what I wanted. They are way overpriced for what you're getting.<br /><br />Buy only out of desperation."
,,,,,Really is Extra Virgin Olive Oil,"I bought this olive oil because of the testing done by University California Davis in early 2010.  The results showed that this product passed for being extra virgin olive oil for all 3 samples, and it was the only imported oil to the United States of 14 tested that passed all 3 samples.  It seems to be more potent (because it's spicier) than the, Trader Joe's organic brand which cost 40% less.  You do know that about 80% of all extra virgin olive oil products are not 100% extra virgin olive oil.  Five stars because it's a decent price and I trust this product for being extra virgin more than other name brands.<br />This oil is from Italy, which means this oil is milled in October or November or December, as with all northern hemisphere olive oils.  The southern hemisphere olive oils are milled in June and July."
,,,,,The best Olive oil,"I have been using canola, sunflower and peanut oil my entire life. But after reading about the health benefits of Extra virgin olive oil or EVOO (anti cancer, anti inflammatory,good for digestive system, bones etc ) I decided to change to EVOO. And according to the UC davis study, this brand was one of the 5 imported oils that was actually 100% EVOO and not a mixture of different kinds of olive oil. and unbelievably, this is even better than whole foods brand EVOO. And the best part is this is the cheapest of the 5 that passed this test. And I would recommend you to buy this at costco, where you can buy 1.5L for $8.99. And I have been told that if you do not have a membership, you can buy a costco gift card and use it to shop for things like this.<br /><br />[The below information is taken from: [...]]<br /><br />The other approved brands are:<br />Corto Olive<br />California Olive Ranch<br />McEvoy Ranch Organic<br /><br />And the brands found to have be fraudulently labeled as Extra-Virgin:<br />Whole Foods<br />Rachel Ray<br />Safeway<br />Newman's Own<br />Colavita<br />Bertolli<br />Filippo Berio<br />Pompeian<br />Star<br />Carapelli<br />Mezzetta<br />Mazzola<br /><br />This is the best EVOO out there and I would recommend this to my friends."
,,,,,Great Olive Oil!,I have purchased this at Costco several times and the quality seemed to be lacking.  This purchase through Amazon was superior.  I'm not certain why there is a quality difference.  I would definitely check this out.
,,,,,"Good product, lousy container",Stuff inside is good. But olive oil containers should be dark to block sunlight. And I prefer glass containers to plastic.
,,,,,A Real Surprise!,"I decided to purchase Kirkland Organic EVOO based on other reviews, and on a University of California study that lists Kirkland as the least likely to be adulterated with non-EVOO oils. I was surprised and delighted with the flavor and adaptability of Kirkland Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil and will purchase it again. It's a great bargain compared to the other two or three certified oils, and the taste is wonderful. A general note: The plastic container Kirkland Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil is sold in is sturdy and solid, but I choose to re-bottle the oil in glass when I receive it, as I do not to store cooking or salad oils in plastic bottles. I would gladly pay the extra dollar it might cost to purchase the item packaged in glass."
,,,,,Organic...,"I have been consuming olives and olive oil for years and years for its nutritional value. I cook with olive oil or use it as dressing or add few spoons into my dish since I need the good unsaturated fat contained in olives in in my diet. All vegetable oils are processed and diluted including LIGHT or EXTRA LIGHT olive oil which is a highly refined oil without the nutritional value. I use much more expensive EXTRA VIRGIN olive oils which taste very fruity and sharp from EU but I have been to their farms and know the product real well and trust the producer as well. Unfortunately, olive oil being the gold standard of the cooking oil is produced and mixed with other oils and adulterated by many for financial gain but not this one since it is pure olive oil. Only EXTRA VIRGIN, the first round of olives that have been pressed have the 200 antioxidants, not refined or mixed with other oils. I keep the oils in the freezer, away from heat and light all the time. Bravo."
,,,,,Great,I use this in cooking and also as a skin care product. First time that I have tried olive oil as a moisturizer and I absolutely love it. This is one brand that I will buy again.It is great and gentle on the skin.
,,,,,"Great size, great product, and great price. .","This is a must have in my home.  I use olive oil for everything, my skin, hair, cooking, taking off makeup. This is great, quality organic, virgin olive oil and I'm in heaven!"
,,,,,Kirkland Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil,"[[ASIN:B007IK5QZO Kirkland Organic Extra Virgin Olive Oil] ]<br />I purchased this olive oil based on testing performed by University California Davis back in early 2010.(I've found of no new testing since then) The results rated Kirkland Brand extra virgin olive oil (3 samples provided for testing), and it was the only imported oil to the United States of 14 tested that passed.(not sure what the test were)The oil tastes very complex (like fine wine) very fruity and sharp(to me). Only EXTRA VIRGIN is made from the (First cold pressing) first pressing olives and offers(They say) up to 200 antioxidants,great taste and all the nutrients that olives have to offer.(that is why it's cloudy unfiltered) After I open the main container which I keep it in freezer and place a small container in refrigerator and refill as necessary keeping it away from light & heat at all times. Enjoy it's worth the extra $$....."
,,,,,"Good product, great taste!","Shucks! I've ordered the same extra virgin olive oil before, however, at the time I paid $25 for 2 LITERS, not 1.5. Next time I have to pay better attention to size & price. Not saying the oil isn't worth it, just have to shop for better prices!<br /><br />I am editing my review b/c I realized only after I've ordered & used the oil for the first time that I mistakenly orderd the organic kind. Again, Kirkland's extra virgin olive tastes great, but for me it doesn't have to be the organic kind to make it special. The price seems just about right if not even super for this type of quality & ""organi"" label."
,,,,,Good but a little weak,Coffee has good flavor but I find it to be a little on the weak side. So I use more than one bag per pot and thus removes the convenience of using bags in the first place.
,,,,,"These are good.  Very, very good.","I don't mean ""good for a gluten free cookie"", or ""almost like a normal cookie"".  No, I mean, that as a cookie they are good.  No strange textures, odd flavors, or smells.  No sticking them in the refrigerator to help out the texture.  They basically taste like a normal crunchy sugar cookie with cinnamon that just happens to be gluten free.  No milk or butter either so I believe they should be casein free also.  According to the labeling they are vegan and kosher as well.<br /><br />That's a mighty impressive list of good stuff.  You're probably wondering what the catch is, right?  It definitely isn't the taste.  As I said at the beginning, these are very, very good.  I only see two drawbacks.<br />1) Cost.  Most gluten free foods are expensive so this one isn't unexpected.<br />2) Quantity.  The 5.25 ounce package contains 16 cookies.<br /><br />16 cookies really doesn't seem like that many, particularly when enjoying them.  However that could be considered a positive attribute for some of us.  I know I have a tendency at times to munch on something yummy without paying attention to how much I am eating only to find I've eaten the entire bag.  Since the package is a built-in pause / stop point, the smaller size less overeating.  Even so, I still wish there were more in a package.<br /><br />One last note, just because I found it to be unusual.  Normally all the cookies would be packed the same way, i.e. two rows of eight.  These aren't.  Instead, there are two rows of seven cookies each, side by side, and then two more cookies at the end of the package rotated 90 degrees from the others.  There isn't anything wrong with this packaging method since it maximizes usage of the packaging space.  It's just not how most packaged cookies are packaged, nor is it symmetrical, so it sticks out as unusual to me."
,,,,,Great Cookies,"I am on a gluten free diet and find most gluten free snack high in calories and fat.  These cookies are awesome. The serving size is 4 cookies, calorie count per serving is between 100 and 120 and fat is between 1 and 2. Great flavor and crunch and almost healthy."
,,,,,yeah!,Finally a cookie that taste great!  If you have eaten any gluten free cookies before you know they are bland.  These cookies are AWESOME.  The best part is I dont have to worry about my multiple food allergies.  I would recommend them to anyone who loves cookies like me!
,,,,,Just delicious!,I love Dr. Lucy's cookies.  All the flavors are terrific.  I don't eat them because they're gluten free-I have no allergies-but I am a vegetarian who usually eats vegan.  I often crumble these (or the sugar cookie flavor) on top of a bowl of coconut milk ice cream-it's spectacular.
,,,,,Gluten free and Great tasting,"I am on a gluten free diet and find most gluten free snack high in calories and fat.  These cookies are awesome. The serving size is 4 cookies, calorie count per serving is between 100 and 120 and fat is between 1 and 2. Great flavor and crunch and almost healthy."
,,,,,Cookie Cravings,"An acquaintance shared Dr. Lucy's cookies with me and I was just amazed at the taste. I have never had a healthy cookie that was crunchy - like eating a homemade cookie, made with love because it took a mother's love and dedication to create these amazing cookies. Looking forward to more flavors. Thanks Dr. Lucy!!!"
,,,,,Finally!,"I have been searching for a tasty gluten-free cookie cookie for several years, a taste that was equal to the cookies of regular eating days.  Lucy's Oatmeal Cookies ended the quest.  They are DELICIOUS!!! They are also a perfect size for a quick snack and ever so satisfying.  The calorie content is also good.  I am anxious to try other varieties."
,,,,,Excellent Gluten free and Dairy Free OATMEAL!,"These cookies are great, even greater since they have no gluten, no dairy, no eggs, and are light crispy and oh so good.  This is a phenomenal price too, and I love the small snack pack size!!!! Thanks Amazon.  And thanks Dr. Lucy (who lives one town over from me!)"
,,,,,"Good grief, these cookies are delicious!!!!","Are these really gluten free, because they sure don't taste like it!  There are a few other cookies being marketed as ""gluten free"" or ""diet"" but there simply is no comparison to these nuggets of goodness.  Frankly, even given the choice between these and something like a Pillsbury or Toll House oven-baked cookie, I'd take Lucy's cookies in a heartbeat.  No guilt, no high glycemic index to make you feel like you just gained five pounds, no impulse to hibernate.  Just moist, sweet morsels that make you wonder why the bag isn't three inches deeper.  (Seriously, Lucy, you need to make them deeper.)  And the inspiring story behind the creation of Lucy's cookies will make you feel that much better, knowing that you're supporting a homegrown business, rather than a huge multi-national.  I can't recommend these enough."
,,,,,! Mmmmmmmmmm !,"What a wonderful surprise to find LUCY's on Amazon.com!  I haven't enjoyed a cookie as much as I enjoy LUCY'S since going gluten free several years ago.<br /><br />They have that just-right crunch.<br />They are just sweet enough - not too, not not.<br />They are just the right size.<br />They have just the right ""mmmmm"" factor.<br /><br />THANK YOU DR. LUCY for sharing the ""lemonade"" you made from the dietary lemons life gave you too!  You've given me many appreciated ""mmmmmmm"", ""mmmmmm"", ""mmmmmmm"" moments!<br />Catsy"
,,,,,"Used to own stock in the company, but changed their formulation, and get a much lower rating","I used to love EVERY flavor of these cokies. I was the one buying out the entire shelf at WFoods. I started ordering on amazon multiple 8 packs at a time.  I could easily eat 2 boxes a day by myself!  I eat really healthy and my sweets is the only thing I give myself what I want.  I am vegan and ""prefer"" to eat gluten free, as I am supposed to due to healh issues, but don't always because there are no other GF desserts that are vegan that I LOVE.  So BOY was I disappointed when I had to stop buying them very mcuh because they changed the fat and calories significantly.  I wonder i anyone else noticed.  I wrote to Dr. Lucy and she replied.  I asked if I could still order some from her int he original formulation, or where I could buy them like that, but she said no.  The only reasons she gave were some type of problem with the formulation and baking f the cookie, but I don't understand beacause they were perfect??!  A better explanation would have been nice.  So thus, I am very disappointed in this line, which was the ONLY GF, VEGAN, LOW FAT/LOW CAL, DELICIOUS!!! line of desserts I enjoyed, and now cannot eat them very often at all.  When I am consuming large amounts, I'm sorry but 25g of fat for a whole box vs. 7.5 g fat/box for the old cookies?  Can't do it. Dang Lucy....I miss my sweet yumminess."
,,,,,Dry with after taste,"I am in the health food industry and I am gluten intolerant.  I have tried many different GF cookies in the last ten years.  I bought a box of Lucy's chocolate chip cookies last night at Safeway.  I was not impressed.  The cookie was dry, almost to the point of being stale. This is a common problem when people try to make a gluten free cookie that have no experience in baking with gluten free flours.  Lucy's cookies remind me of Pamela's cookies which are also dry.  Being dry is not a sin that a little milk or coffee can not take care of.  However what I cannot stand is an after taste.  The base flour combination has an odd after taste that spoiled the little enjoyment I had from this cookie.  I looked at the ingredients and found garbonzo and fava bean flours.  I cannot recommend this cookie based upon the after taste.  I have not tried the other varieties that may have stronger flavors to cover up the after taste.  I would suggest either Udi's frozen cookies or Glutino cookies.  I find these two brands superior to Lucy's.  Thanks for reading."
,,,,,"Ecellent Vegan Gluten Free Cookies, No Tummy Aches","These cookies are very similar to garden variety wheat based chocolate chip cookies, they have similar texture and snap, but these are both vegan and gluten free, which matches my requirements.  My celiac disease makes me very sensitive to wheat and these cookies do not trigger any reaction.<br /><br />The cookies are if anything a little more crisp than most, but not at all hard or difficult to chew.  They certainly contain sugar.  I do not eat these everyday because they are so sweet, but I do like them and may very well subscribe to them.<br /><br />If I were rating these only on flavor and texture I'd give them 4 stars, but Lucy annoyed me by creating a bizzarre nutrition panel.  Each package contains 4 cookies.  They state it is 1.3 servings, then go on to say one serving has 130 calories.  So each package seems to contain 169 calories, possibly over some people's limit for a snack.  But let's be honest, these cookies with lots of organic cane sugar have a lot of calories.  Each cookie must weigh in at a bit over 40 calories.<br /><br />For years we have known that 42 is the answer to life, the universe, and everything.  Now we know it is a cookie worth of calories too, tasty calories.  Will buy again."
,,,,,Nothing special.,"I bought these cookies after reading all the rave reviews but they were very dry, didn't have much chocolate, and left an unpleasant aftertaste. I don't understand what all the fuss is about. If these were the only GF cookies available, I still wouldn't buy them again."
,,,,,"nom, nom, nom!!! 4 stars from a  *non*-gluten free mom","While I am not gluten intolerant, I'm trying to reduce my gluten intake for health reasons and snacks seem to be the best way to to try and curb my intake. Since snacks of this type are not a dietary requirement (much as I'd wish they were) I have the ability to chose *any* cookie, gluten free or not, I am lucky in that I can afford to be a little picky. I had tried a few other weird/bland gluten free options and wow- these cookies really surprised me - the are actually very good! Crispy, no weird/off tastes, just like a ""real"" cookie. Nice size for dunking in a cold cup of lactose free milk without getting lost or soggy. I deducted one star because they could use a few more chips sprinkled in there.<br /><br />They are a little expensive but I don't mind the price point considering that the factory goes to great lengths to protect against cross contamination from allergens and gluten. Plus being a little pricey I am less likely to eat more than one pack at a time :) I'm looking forward to trying the four flavor combo pack next time."
,,,,,tasty cookies,The cookies are great tasting.  Especially for gluten free.  I will definitely buy them again and again.!  The consistency is like a regular chip ahoy!
,,,,,Better than Chips-Ahoy and better for you too!,"I absolutely love Dr. Lucy's gluten-free chocolate chip cookies.  They are a delight to everyone, whether you are on a gluten-free diet or not.  The best part is they are only 120 calories for 4 cookies; and for a college student trying to look good in a bikini, that is very important for me!  I highly recommend everyone try these delicious cookies, they will not disappoint!"
,,,,,Lucy's Cookies A++,"I have three children and seven nieces/nephews (ages 20 to 10 months). Lucy's cookies are the staple snack/dessert/treat in our household b/c of the allergies a few of us have. The cookies, the taste/flavor, the packaging and the crunch are loved by all of us. We always have them on hand and glad to have them ready for us to order 24/7 on Amazon. Lucy's Cookies A+++ (P.S. During the school year, they're great to pack in my daughter's lunch box b/c they follow the school rules!)"
,,,,,"Delicious, but something is awry","These are very very good tasting. Crispy cookies, especially delicious when dipped in milk. They say gluten free, and I totally believe they are, because I did not have a wheat-type reaction. But, I have to say, I always feel MISERABLE after eating these cookies.<br />Someone else mentions how they are too sweet, etc etc. I don't think they taste too sweet, and they have 13g of sugar per serving which doesn't seem like it's that much, considering most other 'sweets' have more sugars per serving (take a look at Gatorade, for example).<br />That said, it does seem to be some kind of a reaction to the sugar, because immediately after eating them I feel like my body is dumping into some kind of sugar coma. I start to feel like lead, and lightheaded. They also mess up my tummy. Maybe it's the type of sugar they use? Evaporated cane juice is the 1st ingredient, and they also contain 2 kinds of cellulose, which I think are sugars also (but I could be wrong).<br />Anyhow, I gave 4 stars for taste, because they are THAT good, but keep in mind you may feel like you need a lengthy nap to recover from eating them.<br /><br />I agree with the previous poster they should do *something* about this ... I don't want stevia or artificial sweeteners in them, but maybe try using less sugar, or a different kind of sugar, like organic brown? I have no idea, but I would never let a kid eat more than 1 of these at a time, for fear it'd make them just pass out!<br />I eat other sweet stuff, and nothing makes me feel this bizarrely over-sugared.<br /><br />I'm not even totally sure it's the sugar that makes you feel this way ... any ideas? It's a shame, because they are so delicious. I've tried them several times, and may keep them on hand for a once-in-a-blue-moon craving, but I definitely won't be eating them often."
,,,,,Not that great,"These cookies are small, grainy and very crunchy with an awful aftertaste. And very expensive for such a small package of 16 cookies. Might be great for multiple allergies, But I was very disappointed."
,,,,,Pretty Good for what is is,"For what is is, this cookie is pretty good. Does it taste like the soft, under-baked, buttery kind you get from a bakery or your favorite shoppe? No, however it does satisfy a sweet tooth. In my opinion these taste just like a ""less sweet"" version of the chips ahoy brand I ate as a kid."
,,,,,Cookies that taste GOOD!,"I love a crisp cookie that you can dip in milk. These are crisp,delicious and light and they travel well for my peanut allergic grandaughter. She's four and its a great thing when we can find things she loves and can eat without worry."
,,,,,lucys chocolate chip cookies,These are some of the best cookies I've found without allergens in them.  I love that they come individually packed so I can grab them to go or put them in my lunch.
,,,,,My sons is on a gfcf diet,My son is on a restricted diet due to allergies and he is very picky. It was hard to find things that he would even try. After tasting one of these cookies he was hooked. Now this is a favorite snack of his.
,,,,,Gluten-Free Tastes Great!,"Terrific flavor, good crisp texture and just the right amount of sugar sprinkles make this a winner! Lucy's cookies are my go - to<br />dessert."
,,,,,CHOCOLATE CHIP,"I bought the chocolate chip and they are delicious!! Regardless of the fact that they are gluten free, these cookies are good enough to stand on their own.<br /><br />I gave my father one to try, and he loved it. He had no idea they are gluten free."
,,,,,Yummy! Crunchy sweet and 8 boxes almost gone already!,"I bought Lucy's cookies because I saw them on Dr. Oz as a guilt free cookie.  I bought the oatmeal and I love them.  I am on Weight Watchers and I calculated them at 1 point plus each!  Wow! A 1 point COOKIE!  Needless to say I am eating them--- but I am eating cookies and losing weight!!!  My husband is not on Weight Watchers and loves them too!  I want to try the other flavors so I will order them, but I will definitely re-order the oatmeal this week!"
,,,,,Lucy's Sugar Cookies,"Great seller, fast shipping! I love these cookies! I have many allergies and I have no problems when eating these. I will be ordering more."
,,,,,Best GFCF cookies!,These are the best GFCF cookies ever! Even better than I can make at home and they are awesome for quick lunch packing!
,,,,,They're great!,"Lucy's Cinnamon Thin cookies, while a little pricy, are quite tasty.  I like to let them get slightly stale so that they are chewy, although that doesn't happen often because they are usually gone too quickly."
,,,,,O-M-G these cookies are Delicious!,"I bought these on a whim at my local gluten free store. These cookies taste amazing!<br />To me, they taste like cinnamon toast crunch cereal.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I have a sweet tooth and need to refrain from buying every week.<br />They are just TOO tasty, I want to eat the whole box!"
,,,,,Just like Snickerdoodles!,"This cookies are really tasty and I will definitely be reordering.  I ordered the package of 16 small bags to be able to have a snack to carry with me to places unlikely to have anything gluten free, and I'm glad I ordered this product. If one is signed up for the autodelivery program the price is pretty reasonable. The little bag of 4 cookies helps me with portion control because if I had the whole box I would probably plow right through them.  They are very flavorful and taste just like cinnamony Snickerdoodles; there is no weird aftertaste as with many GF foods. (I have also had the oatmeal cookies and found them crispy too but much more bland; they would be good with coffee.) I've even considered crushing the cinnamon thins to make a crust for cheesecake but haven't tried that yet (would buy a box to do so to avoid the need to open multiple bags).  The cookies are very crispy, so if that is an issue for you, take note. (I know my false-toothed father would have to soak these in milk to be able to eat them, but I believe he would think they were worth it!)"
,,,,,really good,i bought these after having them at starbucks and i loved them. im always looking for a weight watcher friendly snack and these fit the bill. they are four weight watcher plus points and are delicious.
,,,,,Lucy's Cinnamon Thins,"This is a very flavorful cookie with a nice texture. It is also low in Carb. I have used the crumbs from these cookes to replace a grahmcracker crust and was extreemly pleased with the results. It is my only ""must have in stock"" cookee!"
,,,,,Best ever,"Glad I gave them a try. They are expensive, but all gluten free foods I purchase are! They taste the closest to the best cookies I used to purchase before having to go gluten-free. Will purchase  again."
,,,,,Chocolate Chip Cookies,"I went on a search for dairy free chocolate and found these great cookies!  We believed my breastfed son was sensitive to milk, and having to avoid dairy when you're a chocoholic is very difficult!  These cookies helped to feed my chocolate cravings, and helped keep my sanity in those difficult first weeks with a newborn.  At first, I thought they tasted just a bit different.  They're a lot crunchier than regular chocolate chip cookies and they don't taste exactly the same.  However, after being off of dairy and munching on these cookies, I began to not notice a difference.  My picky husband also said they were good!"
,,,,,Only cookie that considers ALL intollerances & tastes good,"Lucy's is one of the very few baked goods available that omits all the major sources of food intollerances -- gluten, dairy and eggs. More importantly, they are delicious. When we can't find a local source for Lucy's cookies, we always ordered them on-line."
,,,,,LOVE THESE COOKIES,"I love crisp sugar cookies, these were perfect, tasted like regular gluten cookies.  Will buy over and over."
,,,,,They're amazing!!!!!!!,"These cookies have no milk, no egss, no nuts, no gluten and no cholesterol or trans fat, which common sense says should make them taste like cardboard, if not even worse. I don't know how they did it, but these chocolate chip cookies are delicious. They actual taste like chocolate chip cookies should taste. If you've got allergies, try these cookies. You'll love them."
,,,,,Great Glutten Free Cookies,These are the only glutten-free cookies I eat. They are crunchy and go great with coffee and tea.
,,,,,lucy's gluten-free chocolate chip cookies,My daughter loves these!  We both have gluten sensitivities so we were so happy to find these!
,,,,,thank you dr lucy!,"these are so great for a GF kid (or adult...) and for the whole family! we're hooked on the chocolate chip, but we like the oatmeal and cinnamon a lot too. and its great that they come in individual packs or full-sized cookies.  pretty healthy and all-natural ingredients, what could be wrong? they're great, we recommend them!"
,,,,,Very tasty cinnamon thins,"These cinnamon thin cookies looked appealing in the package so I bought some.  I didn't buy them because they were gluten-free, I just like anything that TASTES GOOD, whether it's low-fat, fattening, gluten-free, low carb, etc. and they ARE really good and surprisingly satisfying for being gluten-free.  Make sure that if you eat them while having coffee that you ""dunk"" quick (if you like to dunk your cookies).  I order 5 or 6 boxes at a time and will continue to in the future because now they are a favorite that I eat practically every day."
,,,,,Delicious and healthy,"My review is for the Cinnamon cookie in the small bag.  I love them!!!  I do not have gluten issues, but I like the fact that the cookies are gluten free.  They are crunchy and satisfy my desire for something sweet.  Only 130 caloriesand 4.5 g of fat in three cookies.  Each pack has 4 cookies.  1.5 g of saturated fat, 0 trans fat, 0 cholesterol, 180 mg sodium, 1 g fiber, 21 g of carbs, and 2 g of protein.  Yummy, every bite.  Starbucks carries them sporadically, and I am so glad to be able to buy them from  Amazon!"
,,,,,Gluten Free yumminess!,to all of you gluten free people out there who thought that you couldn't eat Chocolate Chip cookies anymore- think again!  These are so delicisious taht you won't miss the wheat!  They are the best wheat free cookies I've found.  I could eat half a box at a time but I try not to!  :)
,,,,,Great Cookies!,"A fabulous compilation of cinnamon and crunch - sweet and glulten free! Pricey, but worth it."
,,,,,"Yummy, little crunchy cookies","If you have serious food allergies or gluten intolerance, you probably bake your own (and aren't reading this review) -- but what a joy to find Dr. Lucy's cookies in Starbucks recently!  Yes, these are boxed cookies, not to be confused with homemade, which is the sterling standard for me.  But given that, they're lovely!  The body of the cookie is slightly bean-flavored, since that's what the flour blend relies on; but it's not an obtrusive flavor.  Just a bit tangy.  The milk-free chips are great:  nicely rounded flavor, not burnt or sharp.  The texture is pleasantly crisp & sandy; not tough, not hard, not chewy.  Great with coffee or tea. Our favorite is the chocolate chip variety, but the cinnamon and sugar cookies versions are delicious also.  If you're not allergic yourself, but considering buying some for guests or grandchildren who are, then I'd encourage you to go for it.  You'll find you munch on them, too, because they're just yummy, little crunchy cookies."
,,,,,Very Good,"I discovered these at my local Starbucks and loved them. The sugar cookies are wonderful, have a nice crunch and leave no aftertaste. The easiest way for me to explain the taste of the sugar cookie is to tell you they taste & remind me of Christmas sugar cookies. The chocolate chip are good and the cinnamon are too but the sugar is my favorite. It's so hard to find gluten-free snacks that taste great and don't leave you yearning for a "" real "" snack. Buy them !"
,,,,,WOW!,"After being diagnosed as a celiac recently, finding products that are tasty and gluten-free really challenged me.  I traded off tasty for decent tasting after a while, but FINALLY I have found something that actually tastes good.  The crunchy texture makes me feel satisfied after finishing the bag.  These cookies are truly delicious and well worth the journey to find them.  Since God hasn't healed me yet, I am so thankful that He let me find these!"
,,,,,Best Allergy Friendly Cookies I ever had.,"I have 15 documented food allergies and it is very difficult to find decent goodies.  These are the best allergy friendly cookies I have tasted yet!  I tried them for the first time today.  I needed to use up a Starbucks gift certificate and found these cookies in a basket in the front of the store.  Boy was I pleased when I discovered they were as good as any cookie made with wheat and eggs. Not the bland, dry, grainy taste of most GF cookies. Also the price is much better than many of the other allergy friendly products I have tried.  You will not be disapointed in these."
,,,,,YUM!!!,"I am not GF but my 7 year old daughter is and I like to try everything with her.  She almost did not get to eat any of them because they were soooo good!  I'm normally not a crispy cookie kind of girl, but the flavor of these cookies was better than even most nonGF cookies I've had.  We bought a small package from STARBUCKS and will definitely be purchasing many more from Whole Foods."
,,,,,Yummy!,"These are delicious! Discovered them while I was at Starbucks last week...I've tried the Cinnamon Thins and the Sugar Cookies and they're both great! A nice, healthier option even for people without food allergies. Now I'm just waiting for my local grocery stores to get in the game! Would love to be able to purchase these in stores."
,,,,,Wonderful!,"These cookies have a great flavor and no aftertaste that I can detect. I do not find them gritty at all. They are quite crispy, but I like that. I think they are as good as any regular sugar cookie I have ever had, and my non-GF friends agree!"
,,,,,Light and crispy cookie,"I am very pleased with the light crispy texture and sweet taste - so far the best GF oatmeal cookie I have found. It does not have a traditional chewy oatmeal texture, but still great and even better available through Amazon!"
,,,,,Crispy Airy,"These are fabulous! I saw in an online review of Dr. Lucy's cookies someone complaining about broken cookies when they arrived. Yes, some of the cookies will be broken, though not a lot. I think they break because of their unusual texture. I wish I knew the trick of making a cookie like this. They taste great, but a big part of what I just love about these cookies is their texture -- it's that airyness and crispness. Personally, they are addictive. I finished my first two boxes (I had bought, as a test, one of the 16 pack boxes in Cinnamon and one in Sugar) and sadly after a month or so I had eaten them all. I tried baking something simliar and couldn't do it -- though when I have mroe time, I'll give it many more tries. So just a couple days ago, I ordered a 16 pack box or cinnamon, sugar, and now I'm trying for the first time the oatmeal. I do recommend these cookies; they are my afternoon treat -- one pack of cookies (only 120 calories) and a good cup of decaf coffee and I'm fine till dinner!"
,,,,,Yummy!,"These were wonderful. I don't know how they make these so crunchy and airy at the same time. I bought a 16 pack box of these and got in the habit of having a bag (only 120 calories for 4 good-sized cookies) of these every afternoon when I got sluggish. I began to look forward to their cinnamony taste and was bummed when I finally finished all of them. I tried to make some like them and it was a sad failure so just a couple of days ago, I ordered another box of these and the Sugar cookies (they are wonderful, too!) and I even ordered the Oatmeal ones so I can try those and see if they are as good as the others. I highly recommend these!"
,,,,,Great cookies!,"I absolutely love these cookies. I bought them when they orginally had a discount on them and at first bite I fell in love. Having Celiacs, it's really hard to find a good cookie but the oatmeal in these make them taste homemade. If the price was better, I would have give it 5 stars. Great for lunches or to send with kids when they can't have regular treats."
,,,,,Dr. Lucy's brought nothing but SMILIES to my picky eater!!!,"I can't thank you enough!!! My son has autism and is an extremely picky eater. Having food allergies made his food choices even harder! Your product is healthy and so convenient, when your taking a lot of your own food everywhere.  Not to mention delicious!! Thanks again for putting the fun & joy back into eating cookies for my little guy & for so many others! Wishing you much sweet success."
,,,,,Oh my gosh delicious!,"Lucy's Cinnamon Thins are crispy, yummy and entirely too tempting! They taste like snickerdoodles,and I can't quit eating them!"
,,,,,Awesome Cookies and great package size!,"My daughter tried these cookies at a celiac camp she was at and fell in love wih them.  In addition to her loving the cookies, what is great about them is their grab bag type.  Being gluten/dairy/perservative/dye free often she feels different (and a little embarrassed) with the types of foods she eats.  This size is like having something most of her peers eat but it's healthy.  Another benefit is her non-gluten sensitive brother also loves them.  That is the real test, if the gluten eating kids like it!"
,,,,,"Tasty, and sweet","When I first tried the cookie, I wasn't expecting it to be so crispy.  I didn't like it until after a few bites.  They definetly took care of my sweet tooth!  I would recommend these to any one with food allergies"
,,,,,crunchy goodness,"For a store bought cookie, these are good.  Very crunchy and a good flavor.<br /><br />Even if you don't have dietary restrictions, these are worth trying."
,,,,,Great crunchy sweet treat,"These cookies are great!  They have a slight Tapioca flour taste, but I'm very sensitive to that.  The chocolate chip ones are even better.  Thank you Dr. Lucy for a low-calorie gluten free treat."
,,,,,I was pleasantly surprised at how good these cookies are,"I have Celiac Disease and have tried several brands of gluten free ""bought"" cookies as I call them.  I have always been disappointed and resorted to baking my own.  Although baking my own is fine, sometimes I would like the convenience of being able to have cookies on hand when the urge strikes, or to grab when I'm on the go.  I ordered a ""case"" each of the oatmeal and the sugar cookies and was very pleased with both of them, although I slightly favored the oatmeal.  I purposely tried to detect the usual ""off taste"" that I've found in other cookies - there is no ""off taste"" to either of these flavors.  Both cookies are crisp, just the way I like them....I have just one word for them ""yummy""!"
,,,,,Yummy!,"These are pretty darn good cookies!  I prefer <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00213IAUQ"">Lucy's Cinnamon Thins, 5.5-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 8)</a> but these are a close second.<br /><br />The cookies are crunchy, not chewy.  They do have a lot of sugar on the top but it is only noticeable if you have several at a time.  Seemed sweeter  to me than the cinnamon thins.<br /><br />Not crumbly or cakey.  No funky taste.<br /><br />Only 8 in the package, not very many at all.  Putting that in a positive light, you can consider it built-in portion control.  Handy if you're like me and sometimes happen to snack without actually paying attention to how much you are eating."
,,,,,delicious gluten free,"for those of us who can't digest gluten, finally there is a cookie that tastes delicious and is easy on the stomach!!!"
,,,,,Yum,These cookies are the best.  They are very crispy and taste great with a bowl of coconut milk ice cream.  The reviewer who thought they had an aftertaste or grainy texture is reacting to something I can't taste at all; these are yummier than all the wheat-based commercial sugar cookies I've tasted.
,,,,,Delicious!,"We love Dr. Lucy's cookies!  The cookies have a delightful, crisp ""crunch"", while maintaining the consistency of a regular cookie. I wouldn't have guessed they were gluten, milk & egg free! My son is hooked, as am I!"
,,,,,Love the sugar cookies!,"It is so great to have a low-fat, low-calorie, yet delicious brand of cookies available! I don't feel guilty after eating a few, and trust me, you will eat a few!!! I have a friend with a gluten allergy and its great to have something to offer her when she comes over that I can enjoy as well.  Definitely worth trying!"
,,,,,Truly the best!,"As someone who has been at this for a very long time...wheat free that is... I have tried dozens and dozens of gluten free cookies.<br />A cookie-a-holic I have to have my morning coffee with a cookie.<br />Up until this point most of the gluten free cookies have been huge disappointments..<br />I have thrown more practically full boxes of cookies in the trash than I care to remember...they were just not worth the calories, they were that bad.<br />I do like Pamela's brand Biscotti cookies...but they are the only other cookie I've found good enough to spend the money on.<br />And lets face it prejudice abounds in the gluten free aisle...everything is outrageously expensive.<br />But these..they are lovely, crunchy, no grainy texture, no strange after taste, vegan, low calorie and low fat...actually a miracle of a cookie.<br />Most gluten free cookies are loaded with fat...and as I limit fat content that was another big draw back.<br />No problem here though, only 1.5-2 grams of fat per 4 cookie serving.<br />I have tried all 4 flavors and each is excellent, I don't think any would disappoint."
,,,,,YUM!,"These cookies are delicious and great for a sweet treat if you are on Weight Watchers! However, they are expensive so I was thrilled to find them at a much more reasonable price!"
,,,,,All natural and delicious,"Dr. Lucy has created an absolute masterpiece. These cookies are delicious for everyone. There are so many additives in today's food, that it is nice to know that there is a product that is completely natural.  You also have the feeling that you can trust this product, since you know that she created this for her own child. The calorie count is less than other cookies, and it also does nto affect diabetics as significantly as regular cookies do. I highly recommend this product, as well as her other cookies. While I do love chocolate chip, my absolute favorite would be the cinnamon.  Enjoy!!"
,,,,,What a Treat!,"I have a son who is allergic to milk, eggs, peanuts, and tree nuts; however, he can eat wheat.  We have tried lots of allergy-friendly products and are sometimes disappointed with the wheat-free ones as the texture and taste is often very different from products made with traditional ingredients.  That is not the case with these cookies.  They are by far the best allergy-friendly cookies that we have tried yet!  They have a nice, crisp (but not hard) cookie texture.  I was also impressed with the shelf-life on the cookies that we tried.  Many allergy-friendly cookies have a very short shelf-life, but the Lucy's cookies that we tried today didn't expire until October.  Way to go Dr. Lucy on creating an excellent allergy-friendly product!"
,,,,,Run...Don't Walk to Purchase Lucy's Cookies,"As a relative of a child with severe food allergies, i have always struggled with what to serve when the child comes to visit.  Until i heard of (then tasted) these gems! Not only are they super safe for children (or anyone) with food allergies, they are delicious.  I find myself purchasing some just when i get a cookie craving.  they are hands down the best line of cookies I have ever had....Great flavor (you would NEVER know that these were produced with safe products rather than traditional cookie ingredients).  I think one of the hardest thing for parents and relatives and friends of people with allergies is finding GOOD, tasty foods...especially sweets.  If you have a loved one with a food allergy, i think you should stock these in your pantry (but beware, you will find yourself craving them as well!!!)"
,,,,,Cinnamon Thins = Yum!,"Absolutely delicious cookies - crisp & crunchy, but not hard; sweet, but not too much so. Since a lot of the gluten-free foods I've tried have left (IMHO) something to be desired, these were a very pleasant surprise. The grandkids love them too - a true test of cookie goodness.<br /><br />I can buy these locally for about $3 per 5.5 ounce box. I offer this info so that buyers can decide if Amazon's current price, whatever it may be, is a bargain.<br /><br />Highly recommended."
,,,,,Awesome Cookies,"I am on a gluten free diet and find most gluten free snack high in calories and fat.  These cookies are awesome. The serving size is 4 cookies, calorie count per serving is between 100 and 120 and fat is between 1 and 2. Great flavor and crunch and almost healthy."
,,,,,"item says ""Lucy's Chocoalte Chip""","i was shopping for SUGAR-FREE cookies, so they suggested other SUGAR-FREE cookies and i selected them, unfortunately, i'm a diabetic, and when i received the ""lucy"" chocolate chip cookies: NOT only were they assorted flavors (Which i DIDNT order) BUT they were NOT SUGAR-FREE!! why would they suggest these i have NO idea,but i'm very upset."
,,,,,Awful,"As a mom with Celiac disease with one son that has a tree nut allergy and another that has a soy allergy, I really wanted to like these cookies.  We are used to cooking everything from scratch to ensure the safety of our food.  Wouldn't it be great to have a cookie that my tree nut allergic son and I could grab on the go?  I paid a visit to my local Starbucks to pick up a 1.25 oz. pack of the sugar cookies and excitedly opened the package.  The smell alone was enough to immediately turn me off.  The bag had a synthetic odd smell inside.  I took a bite of the cookie and noted its crunchiness-a good thing about the cookie- but then was overwhelmed by an extremely unpleasant aftertaste.  It almost tasted like burnt popcorn with an artifical butter flavor. A very odd and unpalatable taste indeed. I was so disappointed.  I really liked the story of Dr. Lucy and the idea of the cookie, but most definitely did NOT like the cookie. Although I would classify myself as a bit of a food snob with high standards, I put that aside when reviewing this cookie.  I do not think even the less discerning customer would enjoy this cookie."
,,,,,YUCK,"I bought a package of these at Starbucks, and thought good crispy, hmmmm so I bought a case of a mix cinnamon, sugar, chocolate chip and oatmeal.  First they all tasted the same.  They are probably suppose to be crispy but they taste stale, and then they leave an awful aftertaste.  They also taste way to buttery and a portion side is two cookies and the rest are all cracked in the package.<br /><br />There is nothing special about these and are not worth the price, although I love the packaging.<br /><br />Sorry Lucy I've tasted way better GF cookies."
,,,,,Lucy's Chocolate Chip Cookies,"These are the worst gluten free cookies I have ever tasted.  They were hard, dry and tasted like tapioca flour.  Avoid these at all cost."
,,,,,Where's the chocolate?,I don't have any dietary restrictions.  I bought these because of an price reduction.  I wouldn't purchase them again.  They have very few chocolate chips.  Like you have to hunt for them in the cookie.  That isn't what chocolate chip cookies should be about.<br /><br />The oatmeal version of these cookies is much better.
,,,,,THE BEST!,These are hands down the best roasted and salted almonds I have had.  Addictive yet healthy!
,,,,,Yes!!!,"I could live off of these! I'm not kidding. The regular salted almonds are good too, but I prefer the Smokehouse almonds."
,,,,,"Tasty, healthy, good price.","I love almonds in general, and this particular brand is quite good.  They taste great, with just the right amount of salt and oil (for me, anyway).<br /><br />They're individually packaged in 6 oz. cans, which makes them an easy and portable snack.  Portion control is also easier with the small can size.<br /><br />I've ordered a few packs of these almonds, and while there is some slight variation in the taste from batch to batch (some are roasted a bit darker than others), I have always found them fresh and tasty.<br /><br />Almonds are relatively healthy too - high in protein, a good source of magnesium, calcium, and manganese, and full of unsaturated fats.<br /><br />I haven't seen organic roasted, salted almonds from this company, but I hope they offer them eventually at a decent price.  One thing I would also like to see is some kind of assurance that the can liner is free of BPA."
,,,,,A 'Flavorite' Treat,"Very tasty and great for a late night snack, a sitting at your desk snack, and/or a traveling treat . If you're not a big fan of salty treats, steer clear."
,,,,,Perfect little guys,"Yup, no stray pieces, just whole brown almonds. Which is to say that these are not ""blanched"" - blanching being the process that removes the actual skin of the almond (not the husk) and leaves a pale buff-colored product. And the description of ""lightly salted"" is accurate. I can barely taste it. The can says the ingredients are almonds, vegetable oil (canola, safflower and/or sunflower) and salt. That's it. Gluten-free. Interestingly enough, there is no indication on either the can or their website whether these are raw or roasted. And I couldn't tell by eating them. But Blue Diamond responded to my email query, saying they are in fact oil roasted - have to be ""Pasteurized"", per a new California law. [You might want to know that this is a ""light"" roasting. I would say that it goes part way to a roasted flavor, remaining as healthy as possible while conforming to the legislation I mentioned. My taste preference is actually for the flavor of a fully roasted almond, bad me.]<br /><br />They taste fresh and almondy, as they should. They make a wonderful addition in both taste and appearance, to my just-created Nonpareil Trail Mix which is lo-carb and gluten-free as I am trying even harder to follow this kind of diet. I'm pleased to report that these Blue Diamond Almonds are properly dated: on the bottom of the can it says ""BEST BEFORE JUL 20 14"". That gives plenty of time to use up six little cans.<br /><br />And about the cans, they seem to be metal bottom and sides, making them superior for storage although the plastic replaceable top with sealed metallic foil under it might be breachable by the ubiquitous rodent. The little cans are nicely reusable."
,,,,,Smokehouse Almonds,Excellent flavor which we can find no where around us locally.  Ate these as children and enjoyed them so much.  Excellent light snack.
,,,,,One of my very favorite flavors!,"I love all of the Blue Diamond Almond flavors and they are my favorite snack. This one is one of my favorite flavors and I eat these almonds for a snack because I view them as being healthier than other types of snack foods. This flavor is ideal as you get the freshness of perfectly roasted almonds with just a little dose of salt.<br /><br />One serving of these nuts is 170 Calories and it contains 6 grams of protein, 5 grams of carbohydrates, 3 grams of fiber and only 1 gram of sugar and 1 gram of saturated fat. You also get calcium, vitamin E and magnesium from the almonds which are good for your body, heart and bones. I would rather eat 28 of these almonds for 170 calories than 11 potato chips for the same calories and none of the dietary benefits.<br /><br />This flavor has only 2% of your daily intake of sodium which is good for any snack food.<br /><br />The only problem with these almonds is that they taste so good you have to be able to close the can and walk away. If you don't like the super bold and spicy flavors then this flavor is the perfect one for you. This is as good as it gets in snack foods and good for your body and diet.<br /><br />I like all of the Blue Diamond Almond products as I feel that they are healthier for you as long as you don't overdo it in eating them."
,,,,,Very tasty when the price is right,These things taste great but the price on Amazon swings wildly (and widely) so stock up when the prices is low.
,,,,,Tastes the best,"These are perfect for traveling. On the airplane when they offer you peanuts, pretzels or cookies you can take out an alternate, healthy snack. The only thing is, now I'm addicted to them, they're so good."
,,,,,Salted Almonds,"If you like snacks that are a healthier alternative to other options, almonds are a great way to go.  These almonds are lightly salted and roasted.  They are absolutely delicious.  I could easily see getting in trouble with these since I could sit down and eat the whole can in a sitting and not even realize it.  I snack on them pretty much every morning to tide me over until lunch without having to eat a big meal or something very unhealthy for me."
,,,,,Sweet memories,These are the best smoked almonds I have ever had. I remember getting these as a child on the airplane as a snack and have been searching for them for years. Finally found them and I will NEVER eat any other smoked almond. Blue diamond almonds are forever!!!
,,,,,"Delicious, perfectly salted and fresh",Great fresh product if you like roasted almonds.  No more frustrating attempt to buy some that match these in the grocery store. Free shipping and come to your home. Great for snacks.!
,,,,,Love these almonds,"The deal I got on these was amazing so that, combined with the fact that I love this brand of Almonds made ordering these no-brainer. I happen to love all of Blue Diamond's different flavors for their almonds. This flavor - Smokehouse is the best IMO. It's got just the right amount of smoky flavor to it without being overbearing. I believe this is Blue Diamond's best selling variety of Almonds. These come in 1.5 ounce packages and for me each package is good for 2-3 servings - about a handful each serving. Very tasty"
,,,,,Blue Diamond only,"I've tried a lot of almonds out there but I always seem to come back to these. Nicely sized can and a good deal here on Amazon. Lasts me a while between purchases and saves me money too. What can I say, they're delicious."
,,,,,Purchased a bag with way too much salt - Company provided a replacement: almonds were perfect,"Original review -- I thought I had purchased salt with almonds in it. The amount of salt is RIDICULOUS and very unhealthy. Almonds are a healthy snack but not if they are this salty.<br /><br />UPDATE -- I contacted the company and they provided a replacement. The new bag was perfect, the almonds were tasty and not too salty. It seems that I purchased a bag from a bad batch. The company was prompt at correcting the problem. I originally gave the product a 1 star rating, I'm updating the review and giving the product 4 stars."
,,,,,The best tasting almonds; lower sodium is just a bonus,"I love nuts of all kinds, and eat some almonds and walnuts every day. I've tried all the brands of almonds--salted, unsalted, raw, dry-roasted, spiced, cocoa covered, you name it. These are by far the tastiest of all brands and types I've tried. Great texture, a hint of salt...just right. The only problem with these is that they're so delicious its hard to stop eating them. Plus, Amazon beats the store price. Love them..."
,,,,,"Good Almonds, Terrible Price","These are good, though a bit too salty for my taste. But you can get these for about 40% less at any grocery store. Save your money!"
,,,,,good taste,"If you like an almond this is a good product and it is cheaper than the name brand. To me this product taste the same as the name brand, I like paying less and having the same taste!"
,,,,,Delicous salty snack,"Its hard to stick to the rule of doing everything ""in moderation"" with these tasty snacks around. Salty, smokey, a wonderful and more nutritious alternative to potato chips. Good with cocktails, good by the handful. I've snacked on them before dinner, watching tv, having a drink, or at bedtime. And did I mention the price? The 3 pack is so much cheaper than buying singles at the grocerystore. All round great snack!"
,,,,,"Over priced, but tasty","I should have been more aware of the price at local stores for this product.  Walgreens had these exact almonds for $2 less/per bag that week.  They are delicious, though."
,,,,,"Delicious Blue-Diamond quality, half the sodium","I need to watch my sodium - but I'm not really a fan of salty foods in the first place.<br /><br />These almonds are perfect, at half the salt.  I would prefer them over the regular salted almonds any day!  I have no idea why anyone would want to put MORE salt on these delicious nuts.<br /><br />The three-count 16-ounce bags (with Prime shipping) pop on and off of Amazon - buy them when they are available.  Otherwise you must buy the six-pack of small cans, at a higher price per ounce."
,,,,,TASTY!,"What's not to like?  Delicious smokehouse almonds in the perfect size package.  I keep them in my locker at the gym for a post workout snack.  They are very smokey-don't leave an open package in your car, like I did...It made my car smell like cigarettes.  However, this is unlikely to happen as it is hard to only eat part of the package as they are so good."
,,,,,Good almonds,We like these almonds and were unable to get them at our local store anymore so found them on Amazon and ordered them.
,,,,,Best Roasted Almonds,I've tried several other brands of roasted salted almonds available via the Internet and in stores.  The Blue Diamond brand is definitely the best tasting of all.
,,,,,I prefer the flavored,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,I prefer the flavored,"Diamond Almonds<br />Almonds are a good source of magnesium. One ounce contain approximately 20% of the RDA for an adult recommended dietary allowance (RDA)<br />Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) the amounts of selected nutrients considered adequate to meet the known nutrient needs of healthy people. The RDA is based on scientific knowledge and has been presented by a committee of the Food and Nutrition Board (FNB) of the National Academy of Sciences (NAS). The Canadian equivalent is the Recommended Nutrient Intakes. RDA is generally accepted throughout the world as a valid source of information. At least 40 different nations have as well as organizations have published standards similar to the RDA.<br /><br />Magnesium is the fourth most abundant mineral in the body and is essential to good health. Approximately 50% of total body magnesium is found in bone. The other half is found predominantly inside cells of body tissues and organs. Only 1% of magnesium is found in blood, but the body works very hard to keep blood levels of magnesium constant.<br />Magnesium is needed for more than 300 biochemical reactions in the body. It helps maintain normal muscle and nerve function, keeps heart rhythm steady, supports a healthy immune system, and keeps bones strong. Magnesium also helps regulate blood sugar levels, promotes normal blood pressure, and is known to be involved in energy metabolism and protein synthesis. There is an increased interest in the role of magnesium in preventing and managing disorders such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes. Dietary magnesium is absorbed in the small intestines. Are you taking enough magnesium in the diet? The recommended daily allowance is 300mgs/day for men, 350mgs for women. Magnesium is extremely safe by mouth - too much simply causes diarrhea. Try increasing the amount of magnesium you take by mouth until it causes diarrhea, then reduce the dose slightly so it does not. This is called taking magnesium to bowel tolerance (just like using vitamin C to bowel tolerance.<br /><br />Almonds are a good source of Fiber.<br />One ounce contains approximately 12% of the RDA for an adult.<br />So, in summary, Almonds are a very healthy snack, so what's left to say?<br /><br />Two things:<br />1st be cautious about ""bowel tolerance"" or ""happy bowels"" if you prefer.<br />2nd Taste.  I realize that taste is a personal thing.  That's why they make chocolate, strawberry, and vanilla.<br /><br />Here's my current favorites""<br /><br /> 1st Blue Diamond Dark mint dark chocolate (reminds me of the chocolate mint Girl Scout Cookies with less sugar).<br /><br />2nd Blue diamond Dark Chocolate Oven Roasted<br />3rd  Blue diamond Blue Butter Toffee<br />4thd Blue Diamond Almonds Bold Habanero BBQ (reminds me of  BBQ potato chips again with less sugar).<br />5th Bold Blazin Buffalo Wing<br />6th Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar<br />7th  Blue Diamond Almonds Lime `n Chili<br />8th  Blue Diamond Almonds Smokehouse<br />9th  Bold Wasabi & Soy Sauce<br /><br />But that's just me: you might have a completely different take on these flavors.<br /> 4th  and 5th are very close.<br /><br />Gunner<br />May, 2012"
,,,,,Great snack,"I love the portability and taste of this snack. I wish the caloric and sodium count was less, But the protein count is perfect."
,,,,,i love them after i rub some of the salt off!,"smokehouse almonds are great but i just can't take all of the salt so i rub some of the salt off of them and then i go to town, if they sold lightly salted ones i would probably not only be addicted but broke as well from eating them so much love love love this product and will buy again."
,,,,,deez nutz.,great deal on these nuts. whole family loves these nuts. nuts for nuts. arrived fresh and tasty. great for a snack or packed in a lunch.
,,,,,Too salty to eat,"These almonds had an unbelievable amount of salt on them. I love salt but this was over the top. I've bought this brand from other stores and they have never been this salty.  Maybe the machine went wacko when processing these. ???<br />I can't eat these unless I take the time to try and wipe off the salt, which talks forever!!"
,,,,,I love these almonds and all...,"...but the cans were smaller than I expected for the price I paid.  I dunno, I just expected to be saving a lot more than that when buying in bulk.  It's the same price (about $3 a can) at the local Target.  Plus, and this is a personal problem, I had a hard time being conservative with em.  They are delicious (not as good as the smoked ones though which Amazon doesn't sell for some reason) and I couldn't stop eating them!  I went through two cans in the first night!  I love to snack, but almonds aren't the best for snacking in large quantities, and I won't explain exactly why but it messes with your digestive system.  Anyways, the nuts are perfectly fine and it's a decent price (considering you're not paying sales tax outside of NY and that there's free shipping if you're patient) so I can't not recommend them, although I will never buy em again in this quantity."
,,,,,Delicious,"DESCRIPTION:<br />> Blue Diamond Roasted-Salted Almonds are moderately roasted with canola, safflower, or sunflower oil (but not oily or greasy), and lightly salted.  These are ""heart healthy"" oils which are actually good for you, as is the almond oil itself.  Roasted Salted Almonds are available in bags or small cans small.<br />> Blue Diamond Smokehouse Almonds are similar with wonderful smokey flavor.  At this time Smokehouse Almonds are available from Amazon only in 16 oz (and smaller) bags.<br />> I have not tried the ""lightly salted"" variety but I presume that they have almost no salt.<br /><br />CANS vs BAGS<br />Various types of Blue Diamond Almonds are available in bags or small cans.  The small cans (3 1/4"" in diameter by 2 3/8"" high) are very convenient and assure that the almonds stay fresh until openned, and afterward, because they don't stay ""openned"" long (it is easy to eat a whole can at one setting).  Arguably the bags more environmentally friendly, but you don't get much of a price break for the much cheaper packaging.  I prefer the convenience and freshness of the cans.<br /><br />EVALUATION: Excellent and flavorful.  Well roasted and crunchy.  I cannot decide which I like best: the Roasted Salted or the Smokehouse.  Although not oily, the roasting oil does effect the flavor.  Whether that's a good thing or not is a matter of individual tastes.  I happen to like the roasted-in-oil flavor.<br /><br />LESS ROASTED ALMONDS<br />If you prefer less-roasted almonds, roasted without added oil, consider <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001COJ85G"">Back To Nature California Almonds, Sea Salt Roasted, 11-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 3)</a><br /><br />UNROASTED ALMONDS<br />Unroasted almonds are available <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001COE1AI"">Back To Nature California Almonds, Unroasted & Unsalted, 11-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 3)</a> but beware that thorough roasting makes almonds more digestable.  Unroasted almonds are susceptable to fungus which can be carcinogenic.  While commercial domestic almonds sold in the US do not contain significant levels of cyanide, bitter almonds, (which have a much richer almond flavor, particular in baked goods).  Indeed natural almond extract is made from bitter almonds---artificial almond extract is safer.  Bitter almonds are sometimes illegally sold in the US and are often encountered in other countries, and do contain dangerous levels of cyanide when raw.  7-10 raw bitter almonds can kill a child.  Moreover, a child raised on raw almonds may conclude that raw peach pits (essentially a variety of almonds) are safe to eat---they are NOT.  The safest practice is NOT to eat unroasted almonds."
,,,,,100% Natural or Chocolate covered for me,I bought Blue Diamond Natural Chocolate almonds before & 100% Natural almonds it was good but this one made me feel sick i only eat 10 for the day & i dont know if it's the salt or something else with this but i have to throw this away. i cant even move to workout im hoping i can sleep this off. but i guess im the 1 in 1 million that this happens to.
,,,,,soy sauce,"Purchased this item to try.  Had to purchase the case, I believe 3 big bottles.  It wasn't what I expected, but now I have 3 big bottles to use.  I will share at work and with my family, if I can get them to take some."
,,,,,The Only Thing Better Than . . .,"Jablum Jamaican coffee is Jamaica itself, especially the Sandals Resort at Ocho Rios. If you ever make it to Jamaica, be sure to buy plenty of Jablum in the airport's Duty Free stores . . . it is far less expensive, but not necessarily fresher. Also, make sure that the bean quality is #1 (not a problem with Jarblum products, but a concern with other Jamaican ""blends"" offered in stores and on the Internet). Thank heaven for the Blue Mountains (the ""blum"" in Jablum)!"
,,,,,Straight from Jamaica,"I was not expecting this coffee to actually be shipped from Jamaica, so I was pleasantly surprised to find a FedEx International package at my door.  One cannot argue that it didn't come from Jamaica! I assumed it would be shipped via a distributor in the US.  I guess that just proves what they say about assuming...<br /><br />The coffee is real smooth and enjoyable.  Unlike other ""Jamaica grown"" products I tried during my youth - this one you can proudly admit you really did inhale the sweet aroma!<br /><br />It comes packed in a burlap bag with the sealed coffee bag inside, just like the picture.  It arrived fresh.<br /><br />As with any of these boutique coffees, you pay a premium - like the Hawaiian Kona coffees - so it's really a matter of taste and the depth of your pocketbook if you think they are worth the price."
,,,,,Conscientious Seller,"I was not satisfied AT FIRST with this product.  After posting a less than glowing review, I was immediately contacted by the seller (distributor).  They graciously sent a new ""fresher"" bag of coffee.  This is much closer to what I remember.  Try with sweetened condensed milk as suggested, it is served that way in Jamaica.  Now if I only had some coco bread to go with it.<br /><br />Thank you for the prompt, courteous service."
,,,,,the.best.coffee.ever,"This is the best coffee I have ever had ... and I may not be a coffee expert, but I consider myself picky!  This is extremely smooth and flavorful.  I wish the price were lower & we had to sign for our package that came directly from Jamaica (hey, it is real!), but it is so worth the splurge!"
,,,,,Jamaican all the way!,"Since my first trip to Jamaica, I fell in love with the coffee.  The delivery date was right on and we had Blue Mountain coffee on Christmas morning!  For a treat, try drinking it with sweetened condensed milk!"
,,,,,"I don't even like coffee, but I LOVE this!","I don't even like coffee, but this is in a class by itself!<br /><br />There is no bitter aftertaste, and with the slightest sprinkle of chocolate creamer, it is going quickly to become my drink of choice!  I can't imagine how good it will taste with a shot of liquor in it!<br /><br />I just wish we had more! (But we will soon...thanks Amazon!)<br /><br />No matter what Jamaican coffee you buy, make sure it is certified Blue Mountain Jamaican coffee, like this one is! :)"
,,,,,so so,I'm a big Juan Valdez colombian fan. This Jamaican stuff doesn't have the kick that I love from coffee. It's sorta flat. Especially for something I spent $75 for two lbs. Goin Back To Colombian (twang twang)
,,,,,Jablum leaves me nonplused...,"When in Jamaica I drink JBM coffee and have come to develope a fine appreciation for the bean. What I opened this morning was not what I had expected. To be clear, I was greatly dissapointed. I found bits of husk from the bean, which doesn't make coffee, and is considered filler. The flavor left something to be desired as well, it tasted like folgers coffee without all the acid. I was hoping to leave a great review of this product, but honesty forbids it."
,,,,,Nothing to write home about,"Believe it or not, I bought this at a yard sale for 50 cents.  The packaging was perfect and looked exactly like the photo.  It doesn't expire for another 6 months.  I can only figure the seller received the coffee as a gift and had no idea the cost.  I LOVE coffee and figured this would be very good but was so disappointed.  I wanted to see how much it would have cost me had I not bought it at a yard sale and almost fell over when I saw the going price on Amazon!!!!!!  There is NO way on this Earth I would pay the ridiculous amount here, but I will say I like the coffee more now that I know what a great deal I got!  :-)  I decided to try it again this morning and am using the sweetened condensed milk as mentioned by another reviewer (about 3 over-flowing teaspoons per cup - I like sweet coffee).  I also used less coffee since last time I felt it was too strong.  I still cannot pay the going price for this and figure most people on here buy it as a splurge thinking it is neat to drink Jamaican coffee.  I too like to experiment with foodstuffs from other places, but not at this price... Needless to say unless I find another at a yard sale, I'll never drink this coffee again once my 16 ounces is gone... except if I take a trip to Jamaica mon.  :-)"
,,,,,Nothing special,"I bought this coffee after watching a documentary on Jamaican Blue Mountain coffee, thinking it would taste exceptional compared to regular coffee.  This was a gift for my boyfriend for Christmas.  We brewed it in the drip coffee maker and also tried it in the French press and neither one of us were impressed.  At this point, our preferred coffee is Dunkin' Donuts Original Blend...it's much cheaper and more readily available."
,,,,,I did not like it.,"A co-worker of mine went to Jamaica for vacation in Feb. and bought me a 1lb. bag of the ground.  It's expiration date was March.  I brewed it as soon as I got home.  To me it tasted like cheap coffee that had been left out in the open air for a week.  I wonder if it was due to the expiration date, or does this coffee really taste like this.  If so, I will never buy again.  From all the hype, I was expecting much more."
,,,,,English Strawberry Jam,ITS HUGE...3 Kilos...taste is not a great as I remember but still good. more strawberry taste than a lot of American jams. I would buy again in other flavors too. Great for large families.
,,,,,A+ for Steak Lovers,"Can't miss with this when you really want to give something special. Product famous for quality.  Delivered on schedule.  Great, practical packaging."
,,,,,excellent quality,The steaks came well sealed and packaged and were delicious. The price was right too for the size and quality of steaks that came.  I would recommend getting this product for the gourmet food lover in your life.
,,,,,steaks r us,"The steaks are real good & for the price u can't beat it. The store you purchase this item from is very profesional, i highly recomened this store."
,,,,,Not worth the money,"I bought the top sirloin hoping to finally get a ""good"" steak at home.<br />The first ones we cooked....could hardly cut with a steak knife.<br />The second time we tried them, I tenderized for quite some time.<br />They were more edible that way, but still nothing better than I could have bought at the local grocery store.<br /><br />Except for the packaging, there is nothing good I can say about these steaks.<br />If you figure the price per pound, these steaks should cut with a butter knife.<br /><br />Will never buy again."
,,,,,Like shoe leather,I ordered a box of the Omaha Steaks Top Sirloins and it was like eating shoe leather. Toughest meat I've ever had.  There was absolutely no flavor to the steak and I didn't want to waste it so I gave it to my dogs
,,,,,FREIGHT POSTAGE OUTRAGEOUS,"GREAT, EXACTLY AS DESCRIBED, ARRIVED ON TIME, OR AT LEAST AS BEST AS I CAN RECALL NOW. MUST FIND ANOTHER WAY TO ORDER THIS POSTAGE OUTRAGEOUS"
,,,,,Buy from direct website,I found these for 1/2 the cost on the direct website with a free gift of lava cakes as well. Makes a great gift :)
,,,,,"Not bad for ""sardines in bulk"".","Hint, pour on a bit of seafood sauce with horseradish in it and microwave a few seconds to warm up.<br /><br />I just tried a can of these for breakfast this morning.  There were about 9.5 ounces of actual sardine in there and the rest was sauce.  Still not bad considering that's the equivalent of just over two cans of sardines for somewhere under three dollars if you buy them 24 at a time.<br /><br />The fish weren't the freshest tasting I've had, but they weren't that bad either.  At least they're the medium size sardine fish and not the herring you find in the really cheap sardine cans.<br /><br />Here's way to beat the recession and get your protein and calcium."
,,,,,Almost no detectable flavor,"Unfortunately I am completely disappointed with this product. I have an above-average sense of smell, but this extract has hardly any detectable flavor in the bottle and none whatsoever once added to food. Perhaps I received part of a faulty batch? The seller is letting me return the bottle, but is requiring that I pay for shipping again, so I would be very unlikely to order from them again."
,,,,,Quite disappointing,Lacks the flavor I was hoping for and the price was a bit high for the satisfaction level.  I won't be ordering this again.  Live and learn.
,,,,,Great Stuff!!,"I used to use another product by another vendor but they were always running out and not replacing their product for quite a while.  I was glad I found this product as it is even better than the one I used to use.  I LOVE IT!!!!  As a Hawaiian, I eat rice every day and I always sprinkle the Nori Komi on my hot steamed rice....mmmmmm..making me hungry!  I highly recommend this product.  Also, I received this product quickly and it was packed very well."
,,,,,Delish!,"This is so good in rice, on sushi, and miso soup.<br />I am making miso soup all the time now just so I can use this!"
,,,,,Protein in a snack means Gastric Bypass patients can enjoy with everyone else,"After gastric bypass surgery, you have to eat 50 or more grams of protein EVERY DAY. Sugar-free Protein shakes give you most of it. But you do like to get it from other sources also. You have a very small 1/8-1/4 cup stomach so you can't waste your space on snacks that can't benefit you with vitamins, proteins or some nutrient of value. Also, you can't eat sugar., but you can eat sugar substitutes. So KAY'S NATURALS PRODUCTS ARE GREAT! They have tons of protein and they taste great! These cinnamon toast pretzel sticks are great...the sweetener is low enough in the ingredient list to be able to tolerate it--because there isn't much of it. The white cheddar kruncheeze snacks are great also...they are like cheetos and you like to be able to have a snack when other people do. Also, the Thank you KAYS! You help us take casre of ourselves while we ENJOY food and make eating a little more normal. Lisa"
,,,,,Good Snack When Dieting,"These pretzels have a good cinnamon taste and are really crunchy. They are a satisfying ""good for you"" snack as you can nibble on them for quite a while. Also have no trans fats or artificial flavors. Will purchase again!"
,,,,,Awesome Protein Crunch!,"These are a tasty alternative to carb-heavy regular pretzels. I rely on Kay's Naturals to help me in my high protein diet. I would have these for breakfast every day if I could. I'm sad that I have to order them online, however. They should be available everywhere. Kids should be getting these in school vending machines, instead of the evil crap that is now available. THESE ROCK!"
,,,,,Horrible,"I had already bought this product from another website before and I generally love it. However, the one I bought from this supplier tasted horrible and it also tasted like someone dropped ashes in it.  This comes with 12 packages and I opened 3 to make sure that it was not just a problem with the one package. Because this was so horrible, I could not bring myself to try the rest so the rest of it will be going into the garbage."
,,,,,blech,"These aren't clearly labeled ""GLUTEN FREE"". They say pretzel sticks and they do not resemble pretzel sticks very closely at all. They are a weird flavor, sort of costly and not worth it. eew."
,,,,,Not worth the money,"You get 12 bags for 12.00, in each bag is about a handleful of pretzels. The taste is ok but not worth a dollar a bag.."
,,,,,Nutritious but not so delicious.,"These pretzels have a nice crunch and a lot of nutritional value, but their flavor is very bland.  Bland with a hint of cinnamon.  I wish I'd tried a single bag before buying an entire 12-bag box, but they're not available in stores (at least where I live) and the reviews seemed fairly positive.  On the bright side, they do leave you feeling comfortably full for minimal calories.  A recommended diet food for those who have the fortitude to place higher priority on protein-dense snacking rather than flavor."
,,,,,The snack that I love,"The crunch is out of this world. I always have to pre-apologize to my office mates when I have these for lunch.  They don't mind, but I do when they smack/crunch too loud - I digress.<br /><br />These are one of my favorite items my Kay's.  They don't have an aftertaste, maintain there crunch factor and are just plain good. The sweetness is not overpowering and the protein content helps to fill me up.<br /><br />They are a main staple as a treat and/or lunch addition."
,,,,,Kay's Natural Pretzel Sticks Cinnamon Toast,Bit size pretzel sticks are delicious.  Small packages of these sweet and salty pretzels satisfy my cravings for foods I should not be eating.  They are made of nutricious ingredients that follow my weight reduction diet and can be used as one of my mini meals.  Buying them in quantity for discount pricing is a great bonus!
,,,,,"Great taste, great price",Kay's cinnamon pretzels have great crunch and just enough sweetness. The protein/carb balance is comparable to Medifast. I love being able to buy Minnesota-made.
,,,,,Tasty Treat!,Love the kays naturals line.Gluten free and healthy-totally delicious!the cinnamon sticks are my favorite and the pizza flavored puffs for the savory treat. Amazing that 12 grams of protein fits in this small serving! my best find for healthy snack food.
,,,,,Pretzels are good... but that's not what they sent me,I ordered 4 boxes (12 ea.) of the cinnamon pretzels.  I've had them before and knew I liked them. (Not so concerned about gluten.)  They sent me 1 box of pretzels and 3 boxes of cinnamon cookie bites.  I think the shipping department can do better.
,,,,,Healthy Tasty Snack,These soy based pretzels are a little sweet and contain protein which makes them perfect for a mid afternoon snack.  They help cure the munchies and hold off the appetite until suppertime.  Love them and keep a constant supply on hand.
,,,,,I love these cinnamon toast pretzel sticks,"I'm floored by the negative reviews.  I started eating these about 6 months ago and am addicted. This item is a blend between crunch and a bit of sweet.  Yes, they are a bit gritty but I never opt back to regular stick pretzels so that isn't a real noticable issue for me.  I saw Dr. Oz introducing new foods to some people one day and he reminded them to taste and evaluate on the item, not as a comparision to what they were used too.  That may be why some folks do not like these.  I love these so much I'm buying in bulk.  But I have changed my eating habits 180 degrees so maybe that's why I love them.  I never go back to the old way I ate as comparision, and have no lingering desires for the junk food flavor."
,,,,,"ALERT! These have changed! Smaller bags, now you get less!","The label on the little bag says 1 serving is 120 calories. But one serving is 1 ounce. The little single serving sized bag is 1.5 ounces! So there are 180 calories in the bag. This is sneaky. No one is going to open their bag and measure out one ounce, then save the other half ounce...<br /><br />EDITED TO ADD:<br />I ordered these again because the price went down momentarily (is now back up) and the product is now changed. Although Amazon still had it listed at 12, 1.5 ounce bags, what I got is 12, 1.2 oz bags. So now yes, one bag is a serving but the nutrition facts do not add up to what was listed before. Now a bag has 120 calories and 15g carbs. Another sneaky move, you get less for the same price."
,,,,,Cinnamon! yum!,"These are not real pretzel-tasting pretzels but are ideal for those on hi-protein, low carb & low fat diets. Because they come in one-serving packages, they automatically provide portion control. I love cinnamon and I love crunchy foods - so these do it for me as a snack or mini-meal. I've just ordered more and plan to continue."
,,,,,Excellent Snack for Low Carb Diet - Great Crunch,"This is a great low carb high protein snack.  140 calories for a 34 gram(1.2 oz) package -about like a small bag o'chips from a vending machine - they are TASTY!!, filling and best of all provide a real CHRUNCH.  My wife and I are one of the popular low carb packaged diet plans that uses a lot of shakes and soups etc.  Plan works great (-40 for me so far!!) but both of us really miss the CRUNCH of biting into something solid; like chips or a taco shell - well these pretzel sticks satisfy that craving and let us keep to the diet much better.  I will be ordering my second batch soon - they are really that good."
,,,,,Cardboard...,"I've heard people describe horrible food as tasting like cardboard before.  I never quite knew what they meant until now.  This really does taste like cardboard.  I don't think I could give these a way.  They are trash.  Don't waste your money. Here is a better low carb sweet snack <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000ZT15EQ"">Blue Diamond Almonds Cinnamon Brown Sugar, 8-Ounce Jars (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,Too good!,"I try to follow a somewhat low carb diet and find that these pretzels fit the bill as far as satisfying my need for a carby crunch.  I really enjoy all of Kay's chips and pretzels but keep in mind that, of course, there will be textural and taste differences from the ""real"" thing."
,,,,,Love it!,"Finding easy, high protein, low carb food is always a challenge. And usually - when you do find something - it doesn't taste so great. These are YUMMY. I love them. They're satisfying and for those of you who have done or are doing the Medifast diet these have almost the exact same nutritional info as the Medifast pretzels and are $9.00 for a pack of 12 while the Medifast pretzels are $16 for a box if seven. These will be a regular item in my pantry now. :)"
,,,,,French Toast,That's what they taste like to me. I gave them to a friend of mine who agreed they taste like French Toast. Great high-protein snack!!
,,,,,"Love the Cinnamon Toast flavor, not the others","I really like the flavor and crunchiness of the Cinnamon Toast pretzel sticks. And 10g of protein in a tasty convenient, wheat and dairy-free snack is great. I wasn't so impressed with the butter flavor. I think most of the reviewers that didn't care for the sticks were referring to the butter flavor.<br /><br />In response to another reviewer, yes, the package states that this product is made on the same production line as products containing soybeans, dairy, tree nuts, and wheat. That does not mean it is not gluten-free. It may or may not be an issue for you depending on just how sensitive you are."
,,,,,Earthy...,"The freshness is great during the initial crunch but once the chewing and swallowing takes place, these pretzels are very earthy and grainey tasting...I have several bags you can have for free."
,,,,,Fantastic,"Great Deal, I have checked around and you have the best deal, that I have found, on the ""Kay's Naturals pretzel sticks"".<br />These are a good source of protein, crunch and great price.<br />thanks muchly"
,,,,,Great Snack,Since losing weight my snacks have become far and few. With these I can have low calories and high protein. I love the taste.
,,,,,Helps my dogs breath and hair,"I have a yorkie who even after having her teeth cleaned at the vet, use to have horrible breath and hair that matted very easily. Since changing her dog food, she no longer has the horrid breath and her hair looks and feels fantastic! I will definitely buy this repeatedly- worth every penny to us!!"
,,,,,Totally Going to Buy Again,"Really good truffle flavor. Used some in scrambled eggs this morning. And,  just ate a dinner of angel hair pasta, truffle oil, and grated asiago cheese.......heaven. At this rate, I will be ordering this again next week!"
,,,,,The best,This is the best truffle oil out there. They infuse good olive oil. Beware of those who use cheap oils instead! I keep buying this. The seller ships quickly and packs well. You can trust this delicious product!
,,,,,Perfect for wedding favors and gorgeous color!,I purchased these for my wedding favors and they were a huge hit! The candied almonds were not too sweet and the mint green color is gorgeous. It was a whole lot cheaper to buy these on Amazon.
,,,,,Great!!!!!!,We needed more of these for wedding favors. This was one of the best prices and we got them quick. Product was good. Thank you
,,,,,DELIGHFUL SAYS THE GROUP,"I have 5 cats, of whom 4 live inside and 1 is outside. It is quite difficult to find one food that appeals to this myriad of tastes. Seems like someone has a ""no thank you,"" ""are you kidding me"", ""not on your life'"" or a plain ""yeech!"" on any choice i see that looks just delightful.But no, I am the human Momcat and my tastes are just not the same of those as the princes and princesses in my care.<br /><br />But Merrick Grammys Pot Pie Cat Food has hit the rare airy quality of being one of the few foods that is eaten by everyone, all the time, each time it is served. That is a heady rating. There are only a couple of other foods which have reached that level at our house. One is the White Meat and Chicken by Pro Plan.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004ODAS9M"">Pro Plan White Meat Chicken & Vegetable Entree Adult Canned Cat Food in Gravy</a> The second is Salmon and Chicken by Tiki<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002AN8JDK"">Tiki Cat Consomme, 8-Pack, 6-Ounce Can, Napili Luau Wild Salmon and Chicken in Chicken</a>The Third is Tilapia by Fancy Feast.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B005OPQDDY"">Fancy Feast Appetizers for Cats, Steamed Tilapia, 2-Ounce Tubs (Pack of 10)</a>.<br /><br />So of all the cat foods I buy, only four are always eaten, by everyone, all the time and Grammys pot pie is one of them. SO the kitters have asked me to try some other flavor by Merrick. I will try, for their sake...for them anything...but I doubt a raging success. Some things always look great at the start, but then do not make it to the ""all the time, every time, every one"" category.<br /><br />But, my guys give this 5 stars and say ""thank you"" for reading what we think: Gabriella, Trinity, Wisdom, Mercy, and Yellow Kitty. It is a 5 star meal for us and we think your kids will like it also, so give it a try...""you know, for their sake, or however she says that."" ""We agree on this Merrick!!!"""
,,,,,my cats' favorite food,"My cats (who are different in almost every way) totally agree on this food - its healthy so i dont feel guilty spoiling them, they slurp all the juices, nom all the real meat, chomp the nuggets and veggies and lick their lips forever after ! I am a huge fan of all Merrick foods but the Pot Pie, Turducken, Thanksgiving Dinner, and California Roll are my cats' favorites!"
,,,,,S O.....Y U M M Y...........B U T....S O ...M U C H....S A L T !,"810 MILIGRAMS OF SALT PER SERVING is not a healthy amount!  Yet the<br />other ingredients in this condensed soup make it SO delicious, even<br />a ""salt counter"" like myself finds it hard to resist!  THIS IS NOT<br />A SNACK-FOOD!  It needs to be MIXED with other, preferably totally<br />salt-free ingredients!  Not only a soup can be made with this<br />""condensed yumminess"".  I have used it, (with salt-free tuna and/or<br />salmon), instead of mayonaise, and added bread crumbs, for a<br />delicious tuna spread!<br /><br />So -- enjoy this condensed soup!  Just be aware of the absolutely<br />t-r-e-m-e-n-d-o-u-s amount of dangerous sodium in it, and drink,<br />eat, and cook with it, accordingly.<br /><br />...............................................................<br /><br />NOTE TO CAMPBELL'S: I realize that salt here is used as a preservative.  But VITAMIN E is also a good preservative.  Perhaps<br />you could use less salt and more vitamin E to preserve your soups?<br />I hope so!  And will be looking forward eagerly to the day when<br />you do!  Thanks!"
,,,,,Almost as Good as the 20oz Cans,"I'm stuck on this. Cans are better, more lemon taste but them the price is sky high on the 22oz cans I switch to this."
,,,,,Delicious and Convenient,"My 22-year old son introduced us to this tea, which is quite refreshing. This powdered version has several virtues over the prepared version. It is much less expensive. It keeps much longer. My son says the taste is equal to or better than the prepared version (he makes it a bit stronger), and I like being able to make it a little weaker and less sweet. It mixes very easily with no powder remaining."
,,,,,This is a great size (24qt),My husband loves this drink so we keep a pitcher of it in the fridge year 'round. It's nice to be able to buy the 24 quart size. We mix it a little light; 3 scoops (3/4 cup total) per 2 quarts of water.
,,,,,Try it once...,"I admit I'm a coffee snob. It's my one vice. I fell in love with coffee when I went to Venice. I found a little coffee shop on the Grand Canal. I knew that moment with its aromas and sights would be locked into my spirit as a rite of passage in a sense. Unfortunately back in the states I discovered another world. Most of the coffees here tasted like something that was scraped off the pavement at Jiffy Lube. Eventually, after much research I found a couple of great brands, bought my own espresso machine and we lived happily ever after.<br /><br />One day I read an article on Weaver's. It sounded good. Since I'm a happy member of Amazon Prime, I decided to give it a try. It is amazing. Even the subtle caramel flavor and scent is rich and soothing. It's like finding a new close friend to share those moments in the sun with.<br /><br />Let's face it: good coffee is like a good friend, but great coffee is like a soul mate. This is that coffee."
,,,,,Lot of 5 stars but not worthy.,"Brew style: french press, espresso<br />Smell: Nothing special here, decent 'coffee' smell with some earthiness.  No caramel notes, no sweetness.<br />Taste: Mild, earthy, somewhat smokey, dirty mouth feel, finish is short.<br /><br />I mostly brew with a french press but i tried it in my espresso maker just to see how it would fair.  The caffeine seemed very pronounced to me, there was no sweetness to speak of.  It did have a very nice crema though.<br />Overall: I wont be buying this again, its nothing special."
,,,,,Best Coffee Ever!!,We are definately coffee addicts and have tried tons of different coffees out there on the internet over the years. We go through a pound of coffee every 5 days. We have ordered from almost every specialty coffee place out there and alot of them were great ones but was always still looking for that certain taste and this one has it!! I am so happy we decided to try this coffee. We are now monthly subscribers. This is also the first review I have ever posted and I have bought quite a bit from Amazon. This coffee is GREAT!
,,,,,Can't leave home without it!,"On our summer vacation, I made sure to big 2 pounds of Weavers Organic Coffee with us. Because we not only can't live w/out this excellent quality coffee, but are always disappointed when we buy others at coffee stores. Vacation was a lot better w/ Weavers on us!!"
,,,,,Organic Blend = Best,"There is a reason The Today Show voted this coffee the best organic blend in America. It really is the best. I buy a lot of coffee and have tried all the mainstream brands, like Peets and Trader Joe's varieties. This is easily the best I've had. Consistent, never bitter, and it's Fair Trade/Organic too. The Organic French Roast is also great!"
,,,,,Not as good as reviews say,"I recently discovered buying coffee on Amazon and have fallen in love with the convenience.  I decided to try this based on the rave reviews.  Wish I wouldn't have listened.  Not nearly as good as I expected.  Note that it doesn't taste bad, it's just that it doesn't have much taste at all.<br /><br />Also disappointed in the packaging.  The companies seal on the coffee is a joke and the coffee was all over my Amazon box when it showed up.  This could be another reason the coffee did not taste very fresh since it was not air tight.  Will continue to search other coffees on Amazon."
,,,,,The best coffee on the planet,My wife and I switched from Peet's to Weavers about a year ago and we've never looked back. The Organic Blend is our favorite - such great flavor with incredible aroma too. Can't wait until tomorrow morning when I get to brew another pot. Weavers is the best coffee kept secret around - not for long I'm sure.
,,,,,They Got It Right.,"Weaver's got it right with this one. Lot's of body,lots of depth. Very deep and rich in flavor and very earthy and rich in flavor yet very smooth. I particularly appreciated it's caramel finish. Truly a fine cup of coffee. One of the best."
,,,,,Black Gold,"I have been drinking this coffee since I learned that it won a national (televised) competition for best tasting coffee in its category (organic).  I can't drink any other coffee now because all the others taste terrible compared to Weavers. Try this...grab a handful of whatever whole been coffee you drink in one hand.  Hold a handful of Weaver's whole been coffee in the other.  Look at the size of the beans.  Now notice the texture and smell of the  beans.  You don't even have to taste them to see that it is a high quality product.<br /><br />I used to order this coffee directly from Weaver's website until I found it here on Amazon.  I was worried that it would not be as fresh as the coffee ordered directly from Weavers but Amazon sells so much of it, that it never sits around for long before being shipped out. It also arrives much faster via Amazon.<br /><br />I can't think of anything bad to say about it.  It is a little more expensive than standard coffee but not much.  After you taste it, you won't mind the price.<br /><br />God bless Amazon, UPS, and Weavers."
,,,,,Very good coffee,"I got this coffee based on the reviews and fair trade category.  My husband is a big coffee snob (he used to roast his own beans, and uses a burr grinder and french press only) and we both enjoyed this coffee.  We live in Europe and have been using Lavazza Qualita Oro whole beans without complaint and I figured I would give these a try due to the reviews and origin.  The flavor is full bodied and rich with a chocolate depth to it that I really like.  When we ran out we went back to the Lavazza and upon our first cup we immediately noticed the bitterness and lack of character and were sold on the Weavers and I am now putting in my order!"
,,,,,Weaver's Coffee...just right,"I drink coffee black and this coffee goes down smooth.<br /><br />Strong enough, yet not overpowering. Great caramel undertones. Works great anytime of the day.<br /><br />My stomach is happy with it and everything comes out alright. (No, seriously, that's a huge plus.)"
,,,,,Grind before brew,"Grind it right before you brew it and you will have the best cup of coffee possible, if you use a permanent filter with a drip coffee machine you get the full flavor, much like you would get from a french press. Bottom line its the best blend of coffee i have had on amazon."
,,,,,LOVE this coffee,I LOVE weaver's coffee!!!! This is one of the best gourmet's coffee's I have had. I would recommend this coffee to any coffee lover out there!
,,,,,Perfect Aroma and Taste,"My plan had been to order large bags to save a little money, but I'm so glad I ordered Weavers!  You'll notice when you open the bag how heavenly the strong, sweet aroma is.  It does fill the room and it'll waft into your bedroom all night if you grind and prepare it on a timer the night before. I know, you may think it a sin to grind early, but that convenience doesn't curtail your pleasure with Weaver's.  The taste! It's delightfully rich and full.  I can't YET speak for consistency."
,,,,,The best!,"I bought this based on the other reviews and I have to say this coffee is the best I have ever had without any reservations.  I drink on average six to eight cups of coffee a day and I own a top of the line super automatic espresso machine, so needless to say I have tried a lott of different brands and blends.  Buy this, you wont regret it."
,,,,,Whats the fuss?,"Read the reviews and thought this coffee was 5 stars.  Received the coffee and proceeded to open the package. What wasn't there was any aroma. Had to stick my nose inside the package to even smell if it was coffee. Caramel? Well I proceeded to brew a cup. Smelled like normal 3 star coffee, tasted like plain ole coffee. Nothing special just plain ole coffee."
,,,,,Over-hyped,"I fell for the hype and gave it a try. I agree it has the caramel hints, which I guess is just not for me because caramel is a tad salty, and I loathe that briney taste at the back of my tongue when drinking coffee. I'm OK being very subtly reminded of dark chocolate, but no other flavors appeal to me when it comes to coffee.  I'm going back to my favorite, Cafe Altura Biodynamic organic French roast, which is the closest I've found to the rich, deep, bold coffee I've had in Paris.  I've also had good luck with the San Francisco dark roast I used to find at Costco.  Other great dark roasts I've found include Black Swan (Woodinville, WA) and Hailey Coffee Company (Hailey, ID)"
,,,,,Spectacular Coffee,Weavers Coffee is what some refer to as the best coffee on earth. Once I had my first sip I was hooked for life. This great coffee has a great taste and is far superior to Pete's coffee. Experiencing the magical taste of Weavers Coffee is unforgettable and will be the best decision you've ever made.
,,,,,"Good Coffee, just not the best","We ordered this after having and enjoying 'the blend' for seemingly-forever.  In order to have a decent (our opinion) cup, we had to use 1.5 times the amount of coffee that we need when using 'the blend'."
,,,,,Fairly Good,I found this coffee to be fairly good but by no means outstanding. I did not detect any caramel finish. In my opinion it cost far more than its worth.
,,,,,The Best,"I am a coffee fanatic and drink it for the taste, all natural from a french press. I have tried many different kinds here on Amazon and can say that Weavers full bodied is truly the best with flavor that is not too bitter and not sour, you do have to know how to make it right..."
,,,,,Makes an awesome pot off coffee !!,This is no doubt a quality product. It smells perfect. It tastes perfect when brewed properly. I'm adding this coffee company to my subscribers list. You won't be disappointed.
,,,,,amazing coffee,"Tried this coffee while working an early morning job. It was one of the best coffees I have ever tried. The flavor is warm and strong, and I left me wanting more than just one cup. I go to Starbucks all the time, and I honestly thought this coffee was better :) definitely recommend!"
,,,,,No better than supermarket coffee,"The first couple of bags were great. Really fresh, smooth, great taste. I thought I'd found the perfect coffee bean!! The next 5 bags .. stale. I canceled my order and went back to buying whole bean coffee from the supermarket. You pay a little bit more, but I've found that most of the time, the supermarket coffee is fresher. I prefer the taste of Weaver's but too many stale bags."
,,,,,I've had better,camerons organic velvet moon is way better. Comparing the two products this product isn't what it is hyped up to be.
,,,,,Excellent coffee,"I agree with the majority of reviewers in stating that this is excellent coffee, very rich but not overwhelming in the caramel flavor.  I was not familiar with the brand prior to finding this on sale, but I know I'll be ordering it again."
,,,,,Exceptional Coffee,I have tried many different coffees and have never experienced tasting such an excellent coffee like Weaver's organic blend whole bean coffee.  It is very full-bodied and sweet.  There is no bitter after taste.  I highly recommend this coffee to anyone who loves a great cup of coffee!
,,,,,Smooth  taste,"An enjoyable cup of coffee. Tastes better, to me,through an aero press than a french press.Tasted better with some honey or sugar, although I usually use none."
,,,,,Wonderful Wake up,This coffee is great!  I ordered it as a Christmas present with a new grinder and he went through a full bag of these beans in just a few short weeks and praised the quality repeatedly.  Will definitely be purchasing again.
,,,,,Stop drinking mediocre brews and buy Weaver's Coffee and Tea,"You owe it to yourself to try and buy this artisan coffee brewed by John Weaver of Peet's Coffee fame.  If you're going to bother drinking coffee, why not go for the best?  Not acidic or tart, Weaver's Coffee is the best tasting and most gratifying coffee you can buy.  Be bold and different by shedding your old bad habits merey following the crowd.  Seriously, serve this boutique coffee to your friends and they will never go back to big name, mediocre coffee drinks and neither will you.  This is a diamond in the rough of coffee beverages so don't wait any longer.  You will not be disappointed!"
,,,,,Obliteration,"This is absolutely the best coffee in America. Anyone who makes the effort to try this coffee will be addicted. I'm a huge proponent of french press coffee, and this stuff is BY FAR the best that way. It's beyond belief in drip as well. Try it and you'll see what I mean"
,,,,,Mmmmmmm!,"We have been trying different coffee through Amazon and by far, this is the best! It has a wonderful taste. Definitely, ordering this again."
,,,,,Should not be missed!,My girlfriend can rarely have caffeine because of her heart but she can't help but always have a little cup when I make a pot of weavers organic blend. The French roast is worth a try but I must say my absolute favorite is the organic blend! its taste is unchallenged by others.
,,,,,Huh?,its not that this coffee sucks its that it doesn't begin to measure up to all the hoopla!<br />its well balanced but thats about it<br />& even a little old tasting nothing special in the least<br />what sweet caramel finish?<br />can't believe this is the same coffee the 5 star reviews are about
,,,,,Rudy from LA,"Woooowwww ! The ORGANIC BLEND is probably the best thing I have ever tasted. When I opened the bag and the aroma filled the room, everyone just freaked out.<br />I would say The Organic Blend is the BEST !  And not just because NBC TODAY show said so..... ;)"
,,,,,"IT'S GOOD STUFF, BUT DON'T BELIEVE THE HYPE","Hmmm, where to start.  It's a really, really good cup of coffee.  It definitely deserves 5 stars, no doubt, happy to drink it, would be proud to serve it to my guests.  Perhaps best called caramel finish, not sweet caramel finish - might need a little turbinado sugar to get the sweet part.<br /><br />I do not think it is better than the Cafe Altura Dark Roast Columbian sold by Amazon in 32oz bags.  I would consider them equals, but the Weaver's is not better, and you get more coffe for less money with the Cafe Altura.<br /><br />I'm sure being called the ""Best Organic Coffee"" on the NBC TODAY Show was a good shot in the arm for sales, but I sincerely doubt that they are ""the new standard in artisan coffee.""  I think of coffee like Italian restaurants in New York/ New Jersey.  The great ones have endured, and everybody knows where to go for great Italian food.  But, when everybody is making the same stuff really well, what you're left with is your personal preference.  Weaver's is lucky to have some devoted coffee drinkers, but they're not a new standard by any stretch of the imagination, way too many people growing & roasting great coffee for that."
,,,,,Buy this somewhere else. Not from anneeavon!!!,"This tea is an excellent herbal tea. Love the taste and it's not as weak as most herbal tea is. I used to get it from the Commissary on base but they stopped stocking it so I checked on Amazon. Most wanted to sell by the case but anneeavon sold them in single packages and I swear it said ""and free shipping when ordered from this seller"" above the ""add to cart"" button. I ordered last night and opened my e-mail this afternoon to find they charged me $8.49 shipping for each of the 3 boxes I ordered! And the estimated arrival time is a week away! For that kind of money I'd expect overnight. For that kind of money I could have gotten a couple cases and had change. It's probably my fault for miss reading something but just be aware of the shipping charges on anneeavon products."
,,,,,Will not repurchase,"It's not an amazing tea. It's an ""okay"" tea. I buy regular green tea at asia market for way cheaper price and I get same result. I look for saving money. Will not repurchase."
,,,,,Great,Great Product At a awesome price! I've been drinking this product from early May and the health benefit are great .
,,,,,Amazon Regular,"My dogs have been enjoying these treats for years and we've ordered this many times from Amazon in the past.  However, our last order was a big disappointment.  The description of exactly how much of this product you will receive is very unclear, so when I saw that the product weight is 4.2 lbs and the shipping weight is 4.6 lbs., naturally I expected to receive a minimum of three one pound bags (as we have in the past).  Not so.  Amazon outrageously charged us $41.00 for a single one pound bag of dried lamb lungs.  You'd think I was buying caviar!  The treats were promptly packed back up and returned.  Tsk, tsk, tsk, Amazon :(<br /><br />So, 5 stars for the product itself.  0 stars for Amazon this time."
,,,,,Agility and obedience training treats,"I ordered the Merrick lamb lung treats on the advice of a dog agility friend who had great success with them.  My dog has been blowing her contacts in agility trials, and my friend suggested using these special treats ONLY when training the dog walk, A-frame, table, and see-saw.  After just two training sessions, my dog is once again racing to the contacts and sticking them.  My fingers are crossed that this behavior will carry over to the trials, but with the help of a clicker and these apparently very appealing treats, I'm seeing renewed confidence and enthusiasm.  They're expensive, but are a bargain compared to the wasted trial entry fees and travel costs.  I'm also going to use them as I begin very basic obedience training with our new rescue dog."
,,,,,BEST treats...,Best treats for anysize dog. No matter how large or small.  We give these to our local humane society as well.  They dont have the option of purchasing such hi quality treats.  our 45 pounder herding dog loves them.  and the small dogs think they are steaks... nearly jump 5ft for a piece.  dry and greasless and break easily.  can put directlly into pocket without concerns of residue transfer. my favorite and the dogs too.
,,,,,Perfect!,I am the aunt to 4 dogs and they visit me for sleepovers - I always try to have treats they like and this was no exception!  They kept coming back for more :-)
,,,,,Lamb Filet Squares,DOGS LOVE THEM.  They are the perfect treat to put in the kennel with them when I have to leave.
,,,,,Amazing treats for obedience training and snacks,"These treats are the BEST for training, whether its obedience or agility. They were recommended to me from my dog trainer after learning she used them while conducting obedience training with my pups. They can easily break down into smaller bite-size pieces which is great for constantly rewarding good behavior (without overindulging or making them chew) during training. They are also great treats to be used as a small snack for your dog. I highly recommend them!!! My dogs will listen to anything I say when I have these in my hand."
,,,,,Dogs say 'Delicious!',"My two dachshunds are nuts about these lamb lung treats.  And I must say that, overall, they are MY favorite dog treats too, because ..... a one pound bag lasts a VERY long time and therefore is very economical, the pieces are easy to break up into any size you need for training, they are a natural lamb <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000N62EKK"">Merrick Lamb Texas Hold' Ems, 1 lb bag</a>product with a genuine aroma of roast lamb, the dogs NEVER get tired of them, you can carry pieces in your pocket and they won't stink or fall apart (but the dogs sure know they're there!). For my dogs, they are the most motivating commercial treat I've found.  What's not to like?"
,,,,,Super treat product for dogs,My large Corgi mix loves these. They are great as treats and/or crumbled and mixed in with his food. Found these to be much cheaper than at my local store.
,,,,,Lamb Treats - the only treats for my dogs,"I have been giving these to my dogs for the past couple of years.  They love them.  Even though it is a bit pricey, the bag lasts a long time.  We have 3 dogs (spoiled dogs). They get these treats as rewards for good behavior or really for just anything.  This bag lasts a couple of weeks.  Merrick is an excellent company.  The dogs love them and really, what else matters?  This was an excellent price! Will be ready to buy more soon."
,,,,,Lamb Lungs,Most dogs love these but our dog was less than pleased.  He is a tad persnickety.  It is a good product with few calories. Great for training purposes.
,,,,,Amazing Treat!,The Merrick Lamb Filet Squares are the best treat I have found for my dogs. All of my dogs love them. They are hard to find on the shelf as they are so popular they are often sold out at the stores.
,,,,,My Rottweiler loves these,"Been looking for a treat for my rottie that she would like but would also help her reudce her out-of-control milkbone habit and be less caloric. These fit the bill well. My only complaint is that they sometimes arrive pretty broken up into small pieces. However avoid purchasng from White Dog Bone (very slow and poor customer service). The provider seems to vary with Amazon.<br /><br />UPDATE: Tip from my vet - frozen cauliflower - has the crunchiness of milkbones that dogs love and few calories. Surpisingly, my dog is quite satisfied, but then she been eating asparagus, carrots, and green beans for dinner with roasted chicken msot nights for several years. Likes strawberries and peaches too! SHe;'ll still get some milk bones and these Texas Hold Em's but if cauliflower can helpo her lose some weight we'll push that more (and its cheaper!)"
,,,,,Our dog's favorite treat,"These crispy squares are lamb lung.  Our older golden retriever doesn't care what they are, he likes them so much he actually dances around when we get them out!  Even the cat loves them and comes running for a few crumbs when we open the bag.  Our dog is a somewhat picky eater so sometimes I shave bits of these treats over his dry dog food and he loves it."
,,,,,Lamb Lung,This was gross. It lamb lund & smelled bad. There hard chips. My dogs Favorite is the Texas Taffy. Thats a winner. I cut it into peices. she LOVES THEM.
,,,,,Mmm mmm good!,"A friend of mine recommended these chocolate nibs and I love them. They arrived promptly and undamaged. And most importantly, the price was great!<br />:)"
,,,,,Anise Bears!,What can I say? If you love anise bears as much as I do then you understand why I buy several packages at a time. I recommend you do the same!
,,,,,Fake Colored Crystals!,"I used to buy this sugar for years. I do not eat much sugar, but still. This sugar is called turbinado sugar, but is misleading. I picked this brand just because it says real turbinado sugar, and other brands (in the local food store) that their sugar is brown because it is colored with caramel or something.<br /><br />HOW did i find out? I needed just a sweet water few days ago. I put this Sugar in The Raw in the glass. The water became brown and on the bottom of the glass i got just PURE WHITE SUGAR CRYSTALS!!!!! What a shame on the producer! U can try to put this sugar in your mouth and after few seconds you will spit out pure white crystals as well.<br /><br />I'm just wondering if the consumers can hold the company liable for such a practice."
,,,,,Only sugar we use.,"I order a vast quantity of this sugar about twice a year.  We use it on everything. Actually, once you start using raw sugar, white sugar falls short in the taste department."
,,,,,The product itself is great - but not packaged this way,"I love this sugar.  I've been using it, packaged in envelopes, for a year or two for everything.  Gives a great homemade taste to cookies.  And packaged in envelopes - see <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000LKZK7C"">Sugar in the Raw Raw Sugar, 24-Ounce Bags (Pack of 12)</a> - it's wonderful stuff.<br /><br />But not in this packaging.  If you don't use the whole 12 pounds right away, the boxes of sugar turn hard as a rock.  Have to microwave them, pound them with a hammer, and then pour the sugar into a plastic envelope with a sugar bear - e.g., <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002UKOWFC"">JBK Bear Terra Cotta Brown Sugar Saver</a> - to make it possible to use it.  Definitely not worth it.  Buy it packaged in bags or not at all."
,,,,,Great way to purchase Sugar-in-the-Raw.,"I've always like Sugar-in-the-Raw but it is usually too expensive. Amazon has this priced very reasonably and I've been buying it regularly. I also try to avoid any food with hi-fructose corn syrup, and this sugar is what I like."
,,,,,try it,"This is one of the best combination of flavors! I keep thinking my family and I will get tired of having this on ... everything! Try it on every type of fish, salad, pot stickers, and any tofu dish. Enjoy! Great delivery service by the way!"
,,,,,We love this stuff!,"A friend turned us on to Earth and Vine's Sake Teriyaki marinade and I think we're addicted.  It's great on burgers but I mainly use it on steaks.  Definitely the best teriyaki sauce I've ever used as it provides sweetness without overpowering the natural meat flavors.  (Helps the steak and burgers char up real nice, too!)"
,,,,,Great Marinade,"I tried this special sauce on grilled salmon and grilled chicken. It is simply awesome, though not cheap, and I can't find anything better.  Yummy.<br /><br />RH<br />St. Louis, MO"
,,,,,YUM!!!! Love this!!!,"This is an excellent addition to sweet wines, and champagne glasses ;)  Especially if you are a newbie wine drinker, trying to learn to love it... this seals the deal!  Sooooo good!!  Friends of mine that normally don't care for wine, also loved this!"
,,,,,Mmm... Banana!,"While they aren't my favorite fruits, I do enjoy bananas and I keep them on hand because I love to add them to my smoothies (I usually add a heaping teaspoon or two of Matcha to all my smoothies too).<br /><br />This matcha has a delicious banana-y flavor that isn't too sweet.  The sweetness is from the fruit flavor and the Matcha itself, but it doesn't taste candy sweet, at least, not to me ... although it does smell like banana candy when you first open the package and all the while during preparation.  But, I don't get that sort of taste from the Matcha and that's a good thing, at least in my opinion.<br /><br />The matcha does taste a little different with the banana flavoring.  The normal vegetative tones of the matcha meld with the flavor of the banana ... the fruity notes of the banana ... in such a way that the vegetal notes seem to disappear and become more fruity.  The lovely, creamy, buttery tones are still there, and it still tastes like Matcha... but it's not veggie or grassy tasting like some Matcha can taste.<br /><br />I like!"
,,,,,Do you Remember Circus Peanuts??,"This is one of those matcha that you will want to have around for the kids, their friends, and when you want to make smoothies, or have a sweet treat. Its not my favorite from Red Leaf but its not bad at all it just reminds me of circus peanuts. Do you remember those things? Sort of like slightly hardened dried out marshmallow like candies. We used to get them at the dime store. Remember when we had ""dime stores"" ... haha anyway I do enjoy this tea - takes me back to the good ol days, and really where they all THAT good? Oh well the point is - this is some good stuff and I do like it but its more of a banana candy like flavor rather than fresh ripe banana but at the same time I just don't know how natural of a banana flavor one could possibly get - I don't know if I have ever had a better banana flavor in a tea or anything else for that matter that was not a banana itself. I think that banana flavored things always tend to have that slightly strange flavor to it.<br />Now, this is where things get really good ... I mixed my banana matcha with macadamia nut matcha to make a banana nut like matcha and it was excellent! Made a smoothie out of it that way too! It was QUITE yummy!"
,,,,,Larry's Beans is great coffee!,"We are lucky to have several great coffee roasters in the Triangle area of NC: Counter Culture, Carrboro Coffee Co., Joe Van Gogh, and Larry's Beans.  Not to take anything away from the other guys, they roast some wonderful coffee too, but Larry's Beans is the master of blending beans from different regions to come up with very drinkable, delicious coffee.  Wjat sets Larry's Beans apart is that they are consistently less expensive than the other guys mentioned.  For this reason, Larry' Beans gets most of my business."
,,,,,Krusteaz Pumpkin Pie Bars,"These are the BEST Pumpkin Pie Bars ever!  Impossible to find in my area, so checked on Amazon & there they were!  We will have a VERY Happy Thanksgiving this year - this is our dessert!"
,,,,,Pure Heaven,"Krusteaz Pumpkin Pie Bars are out of this world!  We first made them for a big party that we hosted and the guests just went nuts over them.  They were all gone before we even got a chance to try them, so we had to make more to find out what all the hoopla was about!  Well, the guests were right and they are absolutely amazing!!!  We buy 5 boxes at a time now, usually from Amazon since the local stores only stock it seasonally, but it is definitely worth purchasing.  They are very easy to make and we love them right out of the oven, but I think that they are even more amazing after being in the refrigerator overnight.  If you love pumpkin, you must give this a try!"
,,,,,"Good prunes, but what's with the price here? Error?","I made prunes a permanent part of my diet because (a) they are promoted as the best food source of antioxidants, and (b) because they're very sweet and serve as a good sugar substitute for when you have sugar cravings. They're also supposed to be good, um, um, against constipation, so be careful. I usually eat a couple at a time, and never more than four; never a problem within these limits. They're nice to add to oatmeal too, along with bananas and raisins (or instead of raisins). Raisins are also a good antioxidant, in fact, second best after prunes, about half as strong.<br /><br />I've tried many kinds of prunes and so far Sunsweet are the best: I like their taste best; consistency is good (neither too mushy nor dried up like cardboard); they keep up well (I do keep thim in the fridge, but that's strictlyl speaking, unnecessary -- they'll be fine for a couple of weeks in the open, and they taste better at room temperature), and the product quality is consistent, no surprises.<br /><br />I buy them in stores, where an 18 oz canister usually costs between four and five bucks. This page wants thirty? Well, this must be some sort of error... I expect an online price to be better, not six-to-seven times what I can get locally. So, my bottomline is: this sort of prunes is very good, but pick them up at your local grocery store, not here. In fact, I got them a few times on sale for like two-seventy a piece, in a local drugstore, believe it or not. Be very careful with prices here: first, they jump around quite a bit; and second, if you subscribe, and the price goes up, they'll just go ahead and charge you more w/o bothering to ask you if you agree to pay more. Avoid subscriptions 'cause, yeah, they'll give you an extra 15% discount -- and  next month will jack up the price by 50%. It's a racket, so stay clear.<br /><br />PS. Just discovered: Trader Joe's carries pitted prunes too: a resealable plastic bag holds one pound (16 oz) and costs two-eighty-nine. That's about one tenth of what this guy above wants. Bemuzing, to say the least."
,,,,,Great Gift,But I coulnd't get it delivered for Xmas - I was penalized because I didn't proscratinate.
,,,,,Some say this is THE BEST hot sauce!,"This line of hot sauces was found on every table, during our trip to Belize, and I have looked at every supermarket I visit at home for Marie Sharp's brand, to no avail. Finally, found it on Amazon and ordered 4 different types. They came well packaged, in a timely fashion and those in my household who use hot sauce at almost every meal are thrilled! We live in an area with lots of Hispanic markets and a sea of spicy sauces and foods available, but not Marie Sharp's. It's wonderful: ""heat with a little sweet"". Made in and exported by the tiny country of Belize, I recommend you give it a try. Amazon usually has special deals when ordering several bottles at a time."
,,,,,"nuts great, chocolate covered horribly melted","I loved the packs with the flavors, except the chocolate covered. They were horribly melted into one great big discolored glob. Figures, with temps over 100 in SoCal everyday during the summer. I can't blame anyone. It is what it is."
,,,,,Fantastic,"These coffee beans are excellent! Got them within a week, great considering they ship from Costa Rica! They have the perfect chocolate to bean ratio!"
,,,,,Enjoyable,"This tea is a nice change from my regular black tea. I'm not big on the taste of herbal teas so this was a good choice. It's closer to black but has it's own special taste, which I found myself looking forward to. Great in the evening as it doesn't contain caffeine."
,,,,,Delicious,"If you have yet to try rooibos tea you are in for a treat. This smooth delicious tea is excellent any time of the day. I like that rooibos is naturally caffeine free so I can drink it late at night and not worry about staying up all night. I used to drink rooibos when I lived in Africa so this brings back fond memories. What I like most about this tea, besides the flavor, is that this is organic and the company supports fair trade practices. So you can really feel good about drinking a cup of tea from a company that is making the world a better place. This tea is also rich in antioxidants and contains calcium. Some parents make this tea for their children when they have colic (use it like water in baby formula). It is a good natural remedy. This tea does taste best with milk and I add stevia too although it is also served with lemon and honey.<br /><br />~The Rebecca Review"
,,,,,Too expensive!,These are tasty enough for an emergency snack/lunch--I keep a few in my file cabinet. But our local Meijer's sells them for $1.33 apiece. Even the discount price here is twice that.
,,,,,Tasty Snack,"Not sure I'd call this a ""meal"" on the go.  The can of tuna salad is like the size of a can of fancy feast. And you get 6 ritz sized crackers.  Do get me wrong the tuna salad itself is excellent.  Creamy compared to the pouch style ""make your own stuff"". The carrots are a nice touch.  Minimal packaging, ready to eat and shelf stable.  I wish they carried them in the vending machine at work."
,,,,,Perfect light lunch!,"I saw these on sale at a local store and only bought one because I wasn't sure I'd like them. Wrong! They were GREAT and I loved them! Couldn't wait to get more. The portion could be small for some, but for me it isn't. And only 80 calories for all of it? I could not believe that. The tuna salad is slightly sweet with some little veggie chunks in it, really creamy, too. The can opens easy (like a foil on top) and the salad seems to match up to the 6 crackers nicely! I need to get more, only have 3 left! I highly recommend these, but I do know stuff like this is a taste preference, but I am very happy!"
,,,,,Life Saver!,I love this stuff! I am currently deployed in Afghanistan and working extremely long hours.  I keep these delicious little kits in the office and in my wall locker in my sleeping area.  They have saved me many times when I couldn't leave to get a complete meal in the dining facility. Love them!
,,,,,Too Expensive!,"We love Trader Joe's Just the Clusters Vanilla Almond Granola Cereal but were very disappointed with the quantity we recived for the price charged.  As a result, we returned same."
,,,,,Knock your socks off,"Even if you think you know Italian dry mushrooms -- order these and find out how wrong you were.  Unbelievably beautiful, deeply fragrant, terrific huge intact slices.  Flip all the cards over: these completely redefine the category.  Not just for sauces: soak a few to garnish your steak.  Make a knockout appetizer with these porcini, some stock and a shot of marsala.  To top it all: the price is reasonable.  Bravo!"
,,,,,Wonderful mushrooms,I have purchased many porcini mushrooms in grocery and gourmet stores. These were the best quality (flavor and shape). The price was excellent as well. I added some to a fresh mushroom soup I made and got an incredible depth of flavor. Have also used them in braised beef dishes.
,,,,,Phenomenal service and products,"I have been buying mushrooms from JR Mushrooms for over a year now. I have ordered maybe 5 times. Service, delivery and quality are always number 1! I highly recommend this company and their products.<br />Trevor"
,,,,,"Great value, great flavor","I've purchased 1# bags of dried porcini previously from a very expensive gourmet food purveyor in NYC.  I tried this product - the price was a bit lower, but the shipping was MUCH lower.  The dried porcini are as good, if not better than from the expensive place.  They arrived promptly and were packaged well.  I immediately put about a third of them into an airtight glass jar on my counter. Packaged the rest up in a doubled freezer bag and put them in the freezer.  They keep well for over a year.  The pieces are large, sliced well, clean and bright.  The aroma is beautiful.  Tossed some into a pot of braised lamb shanks the day they arrived - fabulous..."
,,,,,Great Mushrooms!,"These mushrooms are wonderful!  They taste rich and woodsy, and add real complexity to soups, stews or anyplace you would use fresh mushrooms.<br /><br />Dried mushrooms don't weigh much, so you will find your order may be larger than you expect.  The supplier recommends that you store them in the refrigerator or freezer.<br /><br />Shipping was amazing.  I ordered them on Friday and received them on Monday, standard shipping -- the package started in Massachusetts and arrived in Seattle in four days!  Very happy with that!"
,,,,,Not Italian or French,"When I bought these mushrooms before, they were clearly labled ""from Italy"". This time, the origin is not mentioned on the bag, and when I checked their website, I see they've written a bunch of malarky about how porcinis'taste the same wherever they're from, even from North America or China. That is just not true. Porcini from Europe taste better: the terroir changes the mushroom's flavor considerably, just as it changes the flavor of grapes made into wine. Since JR Mushrooms refuses to reveal their country of origin, I must assume they are selling cheaper, possibly contaminated mushrooms from China in order to make a bigger profit. Beware! Buy another brand."
,,,,,Boletus edulis,"Excellent rich flavor and the mushrooms were freshly dried.  Based on the spores under a microscope, were these 100 percent Boletus edulis?<br />Rick"
,,,,,Porcini Mushrooms - Grade Super Premium AA 4oz,"I was not able to find these mushrooms in any nearby stores, so I decided to order on-line through Amazon.  The product came very quickly and although 4 oz doesn't seem like much, my recipe called for only 1/2 oz, so this pack will go a long way.  Once reconstituted, and added to my pot roast they were delicious. They made the sauce really tasty and earthy.  My family loved them.  I will use them in stews and soups in the future.  Well worth ordering at Amazon.  Great service, great product."
,,,,,"okay, tasted better.",These were fair.  I don't feel they are AA quality.  Would not repurchase.
,,,,,Expensive Mushrooms?  Ehhh....,"I went for these, when I got a free 30 bucks to spend with a new Amazon Credit Card, and Im glad I didn't pay full price.<br /><br />I was in the process of creating an authentic Bolognese Meat Sauce, and I wanted some very hearty mushrooms to add a bit of OOMPH to the sauce, which is meat and onion heavy, and I figured from the reviews that these are a meaty tasting mushroom.  I also see the price asked for these at our local Giant Eagle grocery stores, so, yeah, I did get a bargain from their rip off pricing, but, these are basically taking up freezer space.<br /><br />I ordered two grades, a higher grade with bigger shroom pieces, less stems, etc, and in retrospect, should have just ordered the scraps, or even the dust, as I found the big pieces stayed a nasty tough chewy texture, even after hours of cooking, I also extracted just juice from the mushrooms, but the broth wasn't strong enough to bother, I basically just chop these in the food processor, and add a LOT of them to get a change in flavor in recipes, the one ounce bags, don't even bother with, because it takes a lot to get some flavor from them.<br /><br />In all honesty, I have not used another Poricini product, so I can't compare, but, I am disappointed with the results I got from these, it may be they do exactly what they are supposed to, for some one with a very tender palate, but, not for me, and in no case, are these ever going to be rehydrated and served on steak, they just stay too nasty of a product to serve by themselves, strictly good for grinding and using in a recipe."
,,,,,Amazing soft pretzels!,One of my most favorite things to eat is a soft pretzel. I enjoy going to the movies just so I can eat a soft pretzel! These soft pretzels are awesome! I will definitely order more in the future.
,,,,,Best Pretzels Ever!,"There are no pretzels that compare!<br />I like putting salt on them and putting them in the toaster until crunchy on the outside and soft in the middle.  Sometimes I'll have them with mustard, but that isn't even needed because they taste so good!!!"
,,,,,enough cayenne pepper for a lifetime,Purchased for lemonade diet and it was more than enough for me and my wife while on the cleanse for 25 days... excellent deal for the price paid
,,,,,Good buy,"It's the same spice that you buy in smaller quantities, so it's just as good for a much better price."
,,,,,AWESOME,"This has got to be one of the Best holiday coffee's available. I am so hooked but now cannot locate it anywhere....If anyone has the chance to try this you will love it, so definatly buy it while you can."
,,,,,Very Delicious,I enjoy the flavor of this very delicious soft peach candy.  It has definitely become one of my all time favorite candies.  The other flavors that this seller makes are also good but the peach flavor ranks #1 in my book.
,,,,,Everyone in the office likes it!,"I just put this candy out two days ago and half the tub is already gone; in a small office!  The candy is very fresh and soft, but not too soft.  A mild lemon flavor, not overpowering at all.  Each piece is individually wrapped and arrived unbroken and perfect.  I would recommend this for anyone.  And, best of all, made in the USA."
,,,,,Good fruit,"Not Blenheims (the gold standard in apricots :) but I have had far worse than these. The fruits are pleasantly tart sweet and have good nutritional value (vitamin A) compared to canned peaches (which are still a favorite). One or two cans were delivered with a small dent but the apricots themselves are unblemished. I am sorry the other reviewer seems to have had such a bad experience but I can honestly say that mine were not salty. And the can indicates that no salt has been added. Perhaps it was the potassium in the skins but I think they help intensify the apricot flavors of the pear juice. In short, these are all ""natural"" i.e. no added sugar or corn syrup which is a plus for me. A good item to have on hand for quick healthy desserts either plain or with a sprinkling of granola and a scoop of a fav sorbet/sherbet/ice cream."
,,,,,Libby's Unpeeled Apricot Halves in Pear Juice Concentrate,"I was looking for the old fashion in,heavy syrup Apricots,but this as close as I've found.I just add a quarter cup of sugar and cool or freeze it and enjoy. Yum!"
,,,,,"Refreshing, Delicious!!!!!","I almost didn't order these because of the bad review. . .only one can was really dented, and I opened that first.  No damage at all to the contents, and the flavor wasn't salty.  The apricots are tangy, the skin is a bit leathery just like fresh apricots, and the cans are quite full, not just juice with a few fruits floating around.  I was very happy with the product and would order again.  These are delicious for a quick dessert right out of the fridge, but would make a nice cobbler, too."
,,,,,Apricots,"These apricots are just great.  They are full of flavor but not too sweet.  There are about 8 to 9 halves to a can.<br /><br />There was a problem with some severely dented cans but as usual, Amazon made it right."
,,,,,Libby's Aprocot Halves in Pear juice,"If you are looking for a pick me up--these Apricot halves<br />by Libby's are so refreshing. The Apricots must have been picked and canned at exactly the right time. The texture is great, they are so tasty and they are not heavy on your tummy. They are one of my favorite items to snack on at night."
,,,,,YUCK!,"This product is a waste of money!  It is bitter bitter and salty salty. Save your money and by the peaches instead.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0040PYN86"">Libby's Unpeeled Apricot Halves in Pear Juice From Concentrate, 15-Ounce Cans (Pack of 12)</a>"
,,,,,also know as black mustard,this mustard is called brown but it is identical to what other company's label as black.  good quality delivered in small bags.
,,,,,Great breath enhancer.,I can no longer buy this in my area so was thrilled to find it on Amazon.  It is one of my favorite breath mints which I keep in various places around my home as well as in both of my cars.
,,,,,Inferior,"Upon opening the package I thought that the tea had absolutely no aroma and looked old as if it was sitting somewhere in an open container for months.  After brewing, it revealed a bland taste at best.  It was like drinking brewed hay.  I checked the expiration date which is two years from now.  Maybe I had a bad batch but it's going back.  I had a better experience with Rishi Organic Jasmine Pearl Loose Leaf Tea.  I do not recommend this tea to anyone."
,,,,,Love this gum.,Very good gum - flavor doesn't last a long time but I still love it.  The peppermint is my favorite.
,,,,,2% CAFFEINE IS NOT DECAFF!,"In order for tea to be labeled ""decaff"" is must be under 0.4% caffeine when residue levels are tested.  A tea at 2% caffeine is not decaff.  Non-decaff tea is anywhere between 3-5% caffeine.  So ...  at 2% caffeine, this is a caffeinated tea, with caffeine slightly less than what is naturally present in the tea leaf."
,,,,,3 out of 4 Paws,"First Impression: The friendly folks over at ""Exclusively Dog"" heard about my website and sent me 5 of their products to test.<br />Let me just start off by saying that I Love how sweet all of these treats taste. Dad was/is considering trying one because they look and smell so much like human cookies. Plus the ingredients are very straight forward, they are probably healthier than most the stuff Mom eats... But there in lies the problem. Dad thinks that they are too sweet for a puppy of any age. The second ingredient in almost all of them is sugar. As we all know puppies have a hard time processing sugar, and just like humans can develop diabetes.<br /><br />Conclusion: Your puppy is nearly guaranteed to LOVE the taste. However these should only be used as an occasional treat! If you were to feed your puppies these sugary sweet morsels every day, they would soon plump up. If you puppy is already overweight or does not exercise regularly, you may want to think twice. On the PRO side they are all natural, with no animal bi-products! 3 out of 4 paws, because Dad made me! If we were judging on taste alone they would be a 4."
,,,,,Knock your socks off,"Even if you think you know Italian dry mushrooms -- order these and find out how wrong you were.  Unbelievably beautiful, deeply fragrant, terrific huge intact slices.  Flip all the cards over: these completely redefine the category.  Not just for sauces: soak a few to garnish your steak.  Make a knockout appetizer with these porcini, some stock and a shot of marsala.  To top it all: the price is reasonable.  Bravo!"
,,,,,Wonderful mushrooms,I have purchased many porcini mushrooms in grocery and gourmet stores. These were the best quality (flavor and shape). The price was excellent as well. I added some to a fresh mushroom soup I made and got an incredible depth of flavor. Have also used them in braised beef dishes.
,,,,,Phenomenal service and products,"I have been buying mushrooms from JR Mushrooms for over a year now. I have ordered maybe 5 times. Service, delivery and quality are always number 1! I highly recommend this company and their products.<br />Trevor"
,,,,,"Great value, great flavor","I've purchased 1# bags of dried porcini previously from a very expensive gourmet food purveyor in NYC.  I tried this product - the price was a bit lower, but the shipping was MUCH lower.  The dried porcini are as good, if not better than from the expensive place.  They arrived promptly and were packaged well.  I immediately put about a third of them into an airtight glass jar on my counter. Packaged the rest up in a doubled freezer bag and put them in the freezer.  They keep well for over a year.  The pieces are large, sliced well, clean and bright.  The aroma is beautiful.  Tossed some into a pot of braised lamb shanks the day they arrived - fabulous..."
,,,,,Great Mushrooms!,"These mushrooms are wonderful!  They taste rich and woodsy, and add real complexity to soups, stews or anyplace you would use fresh mushrooms.<br /><br />Dried mushrooms don't weigh much, so you will find your order may be larger than you expect.  The supplier recommends that you store them in the refrigerator or freezer.<br /><br />Shipping was amazing.  I ordered them on Friday and received them on Monday, standard shipping -- the package started in Massachusetts and arrived in Seattle in four days!  Very happy with that!"
,,,,,Not Italian or French,"When I bought these mushrooms before, they were clearly labled ""from Italy"". This time, the origin is not mentioned on the bag, and when I checked their website, I see they've written a bunch of malarky about how porcinis'taste the same wherever they're from, even from North America or China. That is just not true. Porcini from Europe taste better: the terroir changes the mushroom's flavor considerably, just as it changes the flavor of grapes made into wine. Since JR Mushrooms refuses to reveal their country of origin, I must assume they are selling cheaper, possibly contaminated mushrooms from China in order to make a bigger profit. Beware! Buy another brand."
,,,,,Boletus edulis,"Excellent rich flavor and the mushrooms were freshly dried.  Based on the spores under a microscope, were these 100 percent Boletus edulis?<br />Rick"
,,,,,Porcini Mushrooms - Grade Super Premium AA 4oz,"I was not able to find these mushrooms in any nearby stores, so I decided to order on-line through Amazon.  The product came very quickly and although 4 oz doesn't seem like much, my recipe called for only 1/2 oz, so this pack will go a long way.  Once reconstituted, and added to my pot roast they were delicious. They made the sauce really tasty and earthy.  My family loved them.  I will use them in stews and soups in the future.  Well worth ordering at Amazon.  Great service, great product."
,,,,,"okay, tasted better.",These were fair.  I don't feel they are AA quality.  Would not repurchase.
,,,,,Expensive Mushrooms?  Ehhh....,"I went for these, when I got a free 30 bucks to spend with a new Amazon Credit Card, and Im glad I didn't pay full price.<br /><br />I was in the process of creating an authentic Bolognese Meat Sauce, and I wanted some very hearty mushrooms to add a bit of OOMPH to the sauce, which is meat and onion heavy, and I figured from the reviews that these are a meaty tasting mushroom.  I also see the price asked for these at our local Giant Eagle grocery stores, so, yeah, I did get a bargain from their rip off pricing, but, these are basically taking up freezer space.<br /><br />I ordered two grades, a higher grade with bigger shroom pieces, less stems, etc, and in retrospect, should have just ordered the scraps, or even the dust, as I found the big pieces stayed a nasty tough chewy texture, even after hours of cooking, I also extracted just juice from the mushrooms, but the broth wasn't strong enough to bother, I basically just chop these in the food processor, and add a LOT of them to get a change in flavor in recipes, the one ounce bags, don't even bother with, because it takes a lot to get some flavor from them.<br /><br />In all honesty, I have not used another Poricini product, so I can't compare, but, I am disappointed with the results I got from these, it may be they do exactly what they are supposed to, for some one with a very tender palate, but, not for me, and in no case, are these ever going to be rehydrated and served on steak, they just stay too nasty of a product to serve by themselves, strictly good for grinding and using in a recipe."
,,,,,Misleading,"Unfortunately, all package size descriptions on the product page are wrong.  These are not 1.25oz packages and they are also not 1oz packages (as stated further down in the description).  They are .08oz packages.  Very disappointed in this fact.  Cherryheads are tasty, though, and the shipping was fast."
,,,,,not the best,These are from China and nowhere as good as those from Italy. Spend the extra money and get those from Italy.
,,,,,good quality & flavor,I am happy with my purchase. The mushrooms are mostly whole and have a quality shroomy smell to them (not old and dusty in other words).
,,,,,"Pretty good, but...","Excellent size and not too many are broken, but they may be RAW, not ROASTED, so beware. Would be nice if the merchant was more explicit or offered options.<br /><br />I bought these for my wife who is somewhat salt intolerant, so would buy again IF they were prepared (or presented) properly.<br /><br />UPDATE: Contacted the vendor, who apparently has a problem with English, and does the ""run around"" game, so BEWARE."
,,,,,To me these are well toasted or dry-roasted,"The nuts arrived very quickly (with reg. $5 shipping). They came adequately packaged in 5lb thick, clear double-plastic bags. There's no oily residue left on my fingers after handling these nuts, thus I say they're dry-roasted or well toasted, actually too well for my taste, as some have pronounced ""burned"" taste to them. Since there're very similar cashew offerings here on Amazon that state ""roasted"", I was naively wishing for these to be UN-roasted. Still, these are much less expensive & less burned than those in grocery stores & not covered in sugar, salt, oil etc..."
,,,,,Apparently these are roasted.,"I didn't actually order these, but wrote to the seller. He replied that these are indeed ""roasted"", not ""raw"".<br /><br />The raw ones cost a bit more, about $65 + shipping for 10 pounds (at the time of writing), or you can get the raw 320's (which are a large size), at 5 pounds for $35 + shipping. Both are still fairly reasonable."
,,,,,The BEST for muffins!,"This cake mix can not be beat for making muffins. I have purchased this locally for years and the resturant supply who carried it discontinued it. I tried several different recipes and cake mixes, nothing compared to Ghiradelli! So glad I can still get it online ar Amazon. Wonderful stuff!"
,,,,,Amazon pirated my personal photo for their listing.,Amazon pirated my personal image for their listing. It is not a stock image.  I created it and put my website name on it...LooneyStuff.com...for use on my website. I have asked them to take my image down from this listing.
,,,,,"Jolt Blue again, at long last!","While the flavor of Jolt Blue has changed due to the change to corn syrup from sugar back in the day, it's still pretty much the same thing that it always was.  It's still tasty (and where else are you going to get blue raspberry soda?) and it still packs the same caffeine punch that it always did.  Tasty, and in the classic bottles -- what more could I ask for?"
,,,,,Love it!,"I love Jolt and can remember when I use to be able to get it at just about every gas station. But now its harder to find. So happy when I found it on amazon, and its still awesome as always! Can't wait until they get more in stock!"
,,,,,Just ok in flavor,Purchased this in hopes of flavoring coffee without sweetening it.I didn't find the flavor to be all that amazing but it was ok.If you made coffee with it then asked me to guess the flavor I wouldnt be able to.Maybe because I know its supposed to be macadamia nut that Im looking for the flavor and can find it?In the end I am still trying to find  good macadamia nut flavor.
,,,,,Excellent,"Great product, exactly as expected.  Actually arrived in plastic containers, not the bags as shown - a definite and appreciated upgrade."
,,,,,Not what it seems,"This pecan meal is more like bran flakes than pecans.  I had thought it was ground pecans, and the name would indicate that.  The container it came in is very light, which was my first clue it was not exactly the whole pecan nut meat.  The ""meal"" is flaky.  The price might have been a clue, I suppose, since the per pound price of pecans is over $12 most places."
,,,,,Yum Yum !,"Fresh in the barrel and that's the way they stay. The screw top lid keeps them as fresh as the day they arrived. A very hearty pretzle. Not as thin as pretzel sticks, but not as thick as a pretzel rod. Just the right in between. Fresh tasting and not too much salt.<br /><br />Unless you are having a party, one barrel will go a long way. I bought two barrels to save 10% and ended up sending one baarrel to my company's office. Really a lot of pretzels for the money. Will buy them again."
,,,,,Good But Some Get Broken,"These are good pretzels but as another reviewer mentioned they can get broken during the shipping process.<br /><br />So you end up with some of them being broken into pieces.<br /><br />  Jeff Marzano<br /><br />McCann's Steel Cut Oatmeal, Traditional, 28-Ounce Tins (Pack of 4)<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000LKZK7C"">Sugar in the Raw Raw Sugar, 24-Ounce Bags (Pack of 12)</a>"
,,,,,crushed box,The pretzels are really good butI think the box of pretzels could be packed alittle better or the carrier who delivers could be more careful. Many of the pretzel rods were broken in half  with some in small pieces.<br />The two plastic barrels wre partially crushed.
,,,,,Happy!,This is something I was looking for the office. They were affordable and great taste! They arrive on time too!
,,,,,wedding pretzels,"We purchased the pretzels to make chocolate covered wedding favors for our guests. The pretzels would not have been bad for anything else, but there were way too many broken ones... we would have had to buy five more barrels. My only complaint now is that we shipped them back over a month ago and still haven't received our refund!"
,,,,,MMMMM,"My absolute favorite. Very cherry indeed. This is the only jelly bean I enjoy. Guess I will have to order more. Thay lasted no time with the grandkids, lol"
,,,,,Awesome!,"I love mexican food,  and taco kits.  Taco Bell brand soft tacos is one of my favorite ones if not my favorite taco kit!  You may not exactly save when subscribing.  I usually buy these when they are on sale for 1.99 but you do get them quick and easy every month.<br />The kit comes with soft tortilla taco shells,  the seasoning mix,  and taco sauce.<br />I want to buy a little container of extra seasoning because sometimes i use too much meat or my meat seems like it can use a little more flavoring.  Especially when using turkey.<br />Otherwise I love this kit and I'm very happy.  I subscribed!"
,,,,,best home taco mix,By far the best home taco kit you can get. I  tried all the other ones you can find in local stores and not only is this one better I don't like the other ones.  It is a combination of the mix & shells having a strange taste to them.  Most local grocery stores don't seem to be carrying this anymore so I have them delivered every 3-6 months automatically depending on how often we go through them.  Taco night is one of my 3 year old son's favorite nights as he gets to make his own taco!
,,,,,Easy Taco Night,These are good. I made the hamburger/sauce up and froze it in three parts. I only use part at a time when I'm really hungry and too lazy to cook. They are good.
,,,,,these are great and convenient.,"Taco Bell scores on this one. The flour tortillas are not too thin and not too thick, just right. Makes it easy to put a meal on the table really fast."
,,,,,Delicious,"I grew up eating pancakes with real maple syrup, and the fake HFCS-based syrup just doesn't compare. Maple syrup is just wonderful with breakfast or as a sweetener in cooking. I had never had grade B maple syrup but recently decided to try it because it's a few dollars cheaper. Turns out I love it just as much if not more than the grade A syrup I was used to. It's not graded by quality like some foods, but rather by the color. Grade B is darker and has a stronger flavor. If you like one you'll like the other, and you'll like this Anderson's maple syrup. With Amazon's subscribe and save it's a much better deal than buying at my grocery store."
,,,,,"Good, strong, Wisconsin maple syrup","I ordered this back in October through subscribe and save, and it arrived promptly and in good shape.  I then wrapped it up and -- two months later -- drove it nine hours north to Wisconsin as part of a Christmas gift basket for my parents in Waukesha, not having noticed that it's actually made by a family-owned business further north in this state.  Not only was this a good price for pure maple syrup (grade B, with strong maple flavor that goes a long way on a stack of pancakes), but it was a nice surprise to find that Wisconsin maple syrup is just as flavorful as that from New England."
,,,,,Me oh My oh,"I purchased Bob's Red Mill 12 Grain Pancake/Waffle mix and gosh dernit a small waffle iron. I prefer a stronger maple syrup and this is a great buy from Anderson's. If you don't see any reviews in the next couple of weeks, it will be due to sticky maple syrup fingers and possible carb overload."
,,,,,"Good flavour, very nice","I've heard that some grade B Maple syrups are too strong.  Maybe so, but this stuff is excellent.  This is the second quart we've received, and the flavour is perfect.  A bit stronger than grade A, but sweet, and very pleasant to my taste.<br /><br />PERSONAL TASTE NOTE: I also like my honey straight from the hive, and unfiltered honey is sometimes a bit stronger, as well, as it has bits of pollen and comb mixed in.  That being said, I have friends who are more finicky and they like this batch of syrup, as well."
,,,,,This is a good syrup but...,It is not Vermont Maple Syrup.  I am originally from upstate NY and grew up with<br />the Vermont Maple Syrup and I am used to it. This syrup lacks that little tang(for lack of a better word) that the Vermont Syrup has.  It does come in second tho.
,,,,,"Good, rich flavor","I had been buying Trader Joe's Grade B for about the same price.  TJ is kind of a drive so I used the prime and this is far superior.  Used Alton Brown's recipe for buttermilk pancakes from scratch, added blueberries and this syrup capped off a great breakfast."
,,,,,Andersons grade B Pure Maple Syrup,"Being a hard core ""all things from Vermont are the best"" kind of guy,I was a bit apprehensive about buying maple syrup from Wisconsin.But the low price and a visit to their fantastic user friendly website sold me and boy was I glad.I purchased Andersons Grade B,(my favorite grade),through Amazon annd found it to be by far the best tasting grade B I have ever tasted.Uniqley hardy yet not too molasses like,this syrup hits all the right notes.I will continue to buy this syrup to satisy my grade B obession and highly reccomend it to all."
,,,,,Excellent syrup,I've had quite a few different Grade B maple syrups over the years and this brand is my favorite. Rich maple flavor and nice thick texture. Love this syrup on buckwheat waffles and pancakes. Highly Recommended!
,,,,,Yum!,There is nothing like real maple syrup.  Grade B is the highest quality syrup.  Will definately order this product again.  Price is good too for this quality.
,,,,,Lots of flavor.,We just tried the wonderful Maple syrup. We love it! Thanks to Andersons and hope they keep up the good work. Just ordered another one. Excellent.
,,,,,Excellent,We converted to Grade B Maple Syrup about a year and half ago.  We have tried several different brands and they have all been good.  This is by far our favorite.  The flavor is excellent and it is always a joy to open the bottle and pour out this delicious treat.  Works great on pancakes/waffles/french toast as well as in cookies/baked goods and sauces (my favorite...part of the glaze I use on smoked ribs...mmmmmmmmmmm).  Amazon has an amazing price on an amazing product.  This is our 3rd bottle of Anderson's Grade B and we will continue to purchase it as along as it is available.
,,,,,Pure Sugary Heaven,"I've tried a few different maple syrups, but this is absolutely the best I have tried.<br /><br />First off, grade B has a much more delicious maple flavor than grade A without being overpowering. This brand is not as thick as most syrups, but it's a quality I happen to love. It's way less sticky and you can easily get out every last drop from the jug without having to set it upside down or breaking out a knife to scrape the jug.<br /><br />I love adding a spoonful into some almond or soy milk for a touch of sweetness, mixing in with some peanut butter (try it, it's delicious!), or making the best tasting lemonade on Earth.<br /><br />Even if you're not on the master cleanse or don't feel it's necessary/healthy you should still try the lemonade just to drink. It's way better than any refined sugar lemonade I've ever had! Two tablespoons each of both grade b syrup and fresh lemon juice with 8 oz of water is the most amazingly refreshing beverage you can imagine.<br /><br />My only complaint is I keep finding so many new uses for it, that I've been going threw a jug every week!"
,,,,,Buy It!,I buy it over and again and keep it on hand because I have never had any maple syrup that is any better for the price. And even spending a lot more money has never delivered me any better product.
,,,,,Yummy,"Anderson's Pure Maple syrup is wonderful!!  So thick and oh so delicious.  The only problem is that I did the super savers deal and than they didn't have enough, kinda frusterating b/c I really do love this syrup."
,,,,,I love maple,"I am willing to buy every time I run out.<br /><br />Also, found it cheaper in a store; so won't purchase online anymore ."
,,,,,Yum!,"Every bit as good as the Vermont maple syrups, in my opinion.  As you may know, Grade B maple syrup has a stronger flavor than Grade A and I prefer the grade B version.<br /><br />Looks like Amazon's out of stock as of this writing.  Hopefully they will get more soon because it's quite good and also was well-priced."
,,,,,maple syrup,I like the syrup.  What more can I say. I like it.. I like it. I like it. I like it.
,,,,,Tasty Maple Syrup,"Tasty Syrup, but I was walking the aisle at my local superstore and found the exact same product for $3 less. And I don't live anywhere near vermont. Ah well - its still great stuff! And my pancakes thank me."
,,,,,YUM!,Delicious and the best price I could find! No more buying the syrup at stores for half the size and the same price.
,,,,,Unique buttery flavor with less salt.,"I don't know if they use less salt or not, but all I can say is these olives were a pleasant surprise the first time I bought them in a store.  They have a wonderful buttery-ripe olive flavor and don't seem quite as salty as most olives do.  I wish these were easier to find at the grocery store, or that Amazon would carry this as a subscribe & save item so the shipping wouldn't be so high!  I can't imagine paying twice as much for shipping as the cost for one can of olives!  They don't weight that much!"
,,,,,Great taste,"I tried ordering these from Amazon for the first time. I worried that getting 6 cans at once was a little over the top, but my family of three consumed them within two weeks.  These have a great flavor, and are a great snack. I will order them again and again..."
,,,,,It's a matter of taste,"I LOVE ripe green olives, but do not often buy them, because I cannot eat less than a can at a time.<br /><br />Lindsay olives are what they are:  Very distinct from typical American stuffed queen olives.  No vinegar.  Only slightly salty.  With a mild nutty flavor.  To me, they most closely resemble ripe black olives---but milder.<br /><br />If you like olives but are on a low-salt diet, and perhaps mostly use them in salads, or even sliced on pizza, Lindsay Olives are terrific, as is the price.  For a delicious spread, microwave cream cheese for about 1 minute in a ~24 oz glass bowl (such as <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0016MZPII"">Marinex 23.7-Ounce Small Round Casserole with Lid</a>) to soften it, then mix-in coarsely chopped Lindsay Green Ripe olives.  To make a dip, add a tablespoon of milk and mix.<br /><br />For snacking, or as a light meal with cheese and fruit, Lindsay Pitted Ripe Green Olvies are a faint shadow of the truly wonderful genre of ""California ripe green olives"".  Unfortunately, the only brand you are likely to find outside California is Grabers olives,<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000P8HPCI"">Graber Olives Size 14 7.5 oz. Can</a>.  Grabers are the Rolls Royce of ripe green olives, and are priced accordingly. About $1.50 per olive including shipping to the East Coast, perhaps $1 per olive if you buy them by the case directly from Grabers.  What's the difference?  Bigger, better olives to begin with, PITS, and careful processing.  The pits make a huge difference in any olive---they impart a nutty flavor to the flesh.  In the case of Grabers, the flaver is nutty and buttery. If you want to impress your guests at a buffet, serve Grabers---and go for the big size 16 olives.  They'll cost you about $2 each (i.e., per olive), but are worth it.  Unfortunately, Lindsay does not sell unpitted olives.<br /><br />I also recommend <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FAKUP0"">Byzantine Fresh Olive Antipasto, 5-Pound Bag</a> and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000FAIR46"">Byzantine Pitted Country Olive Mix, 5-Pound Bag</a> Both are nice mixes of unpitted olives, without hot-peppers or other excessive flavoring."
,,,,,"Please keep in stock, best olives on the planet",these are the best green olives on the planet. i buy cases of these. they are well over 4.50 at some stores. i get them here when they are avail.
,,,,,Best RIPE Olive I've Ever Had,"These are wonderful and the previous reviewer put it perfectly.<br />These are a delicate, tender, buttery flavor olive. The one<br />grocer in our area just quit carrying these with no hope in<br />sight of ever ordering them again.<br />Then found out we can not even get them in our state!<br /><br />Bummer that Amazon doesn't carry them."
,,,,,a little pricy; no details on bag,"at $12 for 2.1 ounces, no wonder one can't pull up the bag to see details.<br />Like $80 per pound!"
,,,,,Best Coffee Ever,"My wife had some coffee at the Cafe d'Arte coffee shop when visiting her mother last year. She raved about it so much that I contacted their web site to sample some. It was great. Some friends who own a local restaurant (which prides itself on its good coffee) agreed that it was the best they ever had. I reordered several times, before deciding to look up the price on Amazon.<br />Short version: Same coffee, much better price."
,,,,,Alternative Thickner!  Gluten-Free!,"This gluten-free starch  is used to thicken soups and gravies.  Its main advantage over other starch thickeners is that it's a permitted ingredient for Passover, unlike cornstarch and other grain-based foods. Liquids thickened with potato starch should never be boiled.  Supermarkets often stock it among the Kosher products. I have used this in cakes and in some gentle sauces.  There is no taste that comes from this so just the flavor of the ingredients comes through.  It is very silky and fine.  Remember you do not want to let your sauce boil with this starch.  Those who are on a gluten free diet may be able to use this."
,,,,,Potato Starch,"What can I say about potato starch. It's just potato starch, so this review will be on Barry Farm instead of potato starch.<br /><br />From Barry Farm you're going to get things cheaper, much cheaper. I've been buying products from Barry Farm for several years and they have been great to deal with. Their shipping is fair, but unfortunately, flours and starches weigh a lot and shipping isn't cheap. I purchase items from them that are too expensive to buy locally, things I can't find locally (finely ground white corn flour, sweet rice flour and Ivory Teff) and items that are better quality than what I can buy locally (the best sorghum flour anywhere). I usually order 25 or 30 pounds of product at a time and that reduces the overall price per pound to a reasonable cost."
,,,,,Great replacement for fat in cupcakes and other sweets,"A recipe in Cooking Light recommended that Potato Starch be added to cupcakes, cakes, etc. when you reduce the amount of butter.  It worked well and I would recommend this company.  They had a fast ship and well packaged."
,,,,,"Good company and quality, small and expensive bag","I was thinking 1 lb would be a lot more than what it actually came out to be. Especially since starch is somewhat light, and since it was $8. I wish they sold this in larger quantities."
,,,,,gluten free all purpose flour ingredient,"Learning to cook Gluten Free is difficult.  I especially like bread and have been experimenting with this product to mix a flour that is like my mother's.  So far it is an experiment, but I couldn't do without it."
,,,,,Barry Farms,"They may have great products, but shipping is incredibly slow (shipped 12 days after I placed the order; not yet received) and the shipping price is unreasonable."
,,,,,Happy to find a source for potato starch,I was not able to find potato starch in my local stores. I went to specialty cake decorating stores and was told that this product could be found in the regular super markets....not the case. I came across this cake recipe which called for the potato starch and I wanted to use the ingredients stated. I was so happpy when I found the product in small and large quantities. This is a web site that I will definitely book mark. The end product was a beautiful looking and great tasting cake.
,,,,,A fave,"We used to buy this pasta regularly at our local supermarkets, but a few years ago it just vanished...  We were very glad to stumble upon it on Amazon, and the transaction was, as usual, perfectly fine."
,,,,,Darn good pasta and fantastic customer service,"Discovered this pasta years ago in Canada. Love it, but so hard to find consistently in US stores.<br /><br />This is the second time that I have bought from this seller. Excellent service from start to receipt."
,,,,,excellent!,"Great to send to my son, a college student.  Easy to fix and very tasty."
,,,,,My all time fave boxed pasta dish,"I love this product, and I wish it was easier to find in the stores.  For some reason, I can never find it. Our local stores will order it, but they won't call and let you know it came in.  By the time I get there, it's already all been sold.<br /><br />This is a great side dish with a piece of chicken or a green salad.  I love it with vine ripened tomatoes, but my favorite way is to substitute Del Monte brand Italian Style Stewed Tomatoes. It amps up the spicy factor by quite a lot, but it's not hot spicy, just very flavorful.  Try it this way during the winter months when decent tomatoes cannot be found."
,,,,,delicious and refreshing and GREEN!,"This is a great way to trick children into drinking ""juice"", it is organic, flavorful and the berries give the tea a red/pink/purple color.  No more food coloring, artificial flavors or sweeteners.  Everything I could have asked for.  Even the packaging is Green, it is printed with soy ink.  This is a company you should be proud to support.  The only way it could be better is if it was made in my home town, so it would take less energy to get it into my tummy.  It is absolutely refreshing and nourishing."
,,,,,Too Sweet,DONT BE FOOLED - This is not a Health Cereal.<br />The second ingredient is SUGAR and this cereal also has fructose in it.  I feel like I'm eating kid cereal.  It would be healthy if it had less sugar in it.  Carb-conscious people and diabetics BEWARE.
,,,,,I bought 12 boxes~what does that tell you?,That says it all. This is the most wonderful way to get fiber. I use it as a snack as opposed to cookies or chips. I nver use milk just 1 cup in a bowl and a slowly munch one square at a time. It works for my weight watchers plan. A great way to get fiber and soothe the cookie monseter in a healthy fashion.
,,,,,Like eating kid's cereal!,"This cereal is so tasty - it seems like you are eating one of those not-good-for-you sugary cereals that kids love. They are very similar to Cinnamon Toast Crunch. They do have a slight ""healthy"" taste, but it's hardly noticable. Even the kid's will enjoy this cereal which has an amazing amount of fiber in it - especially to taste so good (not like sticks)! I used to eat raisin bran b/c it had 7g of fiber and still tasted okay. Now I eat this, which has 9g of fiber and tastes awesome!<br />I highly recommend it. Oh, and the squares are small, about 1/2 the size of CTCrunch, so it's the perfect size for toddlers to pick up and eat. They'll think they are eating candy, but you'll know it's good for them ;)"
,,,,,Way too sweet for a cereal.....but great as high fiber snack!,"I frequently buy Post Shredded Wheat, and decided to try this new cereal because it's made of whole grain wheat.  My teenage children had the same opinion about Caramel Delight that I did...they liked it as an occasional high fiber snack, but it's way too sweet as a cereal!  General Mills should reduce the sugar, and instead increase the insoluble fiber in this cereal. That would make it perfect!"
,,,,,Really Tasty,"Really tasty cereal, amazing packaging (way to go Amazon; the boxes were in better shape than at the store). Sometimes the cereal seems a bit too sweet. It's nice that I can get so much fiber from this, but one has to be careful not to eat too much haha."
,,,,,A little too sweet but still delicious and great for GI health.,"I was a skeptic about this product until I tried it with skim milk. This cereal is delicious and retains its crunch even after 5 minutes of being soaked in milk. I enjoy its texture and caramelly flavor. I think it could definitely be less sweet and lower carb, but so far, I find this cereal to have the highest fiber content. The other vitamins and minerals a single serving contains is also comparable to similar products by other companies. This is perfect for breakfast or a snack any time of the day!"
,,,,,AWESOME!!!,"Finally a High Fiber cereal that tastes great!! I like mixing the Carmel with either the Honey Cluster or the Raison Cluster for an even Higher Fiber load. And the lowest price I've found these cereals in on Amazon.com (we all love saving money while being healthy, right?). Try it for 3 days and I'm sure you'll love it like I do. Thanks and have a healthy day!!!<br />Mike Buckley<br />Concord, CA"
,,,,,My least favorite of the FiberONE options,"This cereal makes getting your fiber easier, but it does not taste as good as the other products in the same line. I was expecting ""Caramel Delight"" to have a powerful caramel flavor, but found it lacking. It's not that the cereal is inedible - it tastes fine, but the flavor gets a little lost once you add milk. It's like you're eating ""healthy"" cereal - the ""clusters"" options make it much easier to feel like you're indulging and taste much better. Just be warned - don't eat too much. Don't snack on it like it's popcorn. It's got fiber, even if you can't taste it - and your body will let you know when you've had too much."
,,,,,The BEST fiber cereal I've ever eaten!,"LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this cereal!  It tastes like a caramel version of cinnamon toast crunch.  All Fiber One products are great!  Not like other fiber products that taste like cardboard!  Get your daily fiber with a product that is actually delicious.  Highly recommend."
,,,,,My 3 year old loves it!,"I decided to give this a try because their fiber bars were so good.  Well, I was not disappointed.  I've been eating this regularly since I bought it.  Everyone including my 3 year old loves it.  The best part, we are meeting our daily requirement for fiber.  I know because we're pretty regular now.  It's great to eat something that's good for you, and good too."
,,,,,We love it,"Excellent fiber content and yummy caramel flavour at a great price per case.  Parents and kids happy with breakfast this week.  It's a whole grain flavor but we are used to that.  This makes a good home made trail mix ingredient with Raisins, nuts, and a sprinkle of chocolate chips or M&M's of your choice.  Enjoy!"
,,,,,don't have much fiber,"I bought this -- just one box, not a six-pack -- on sale at a store. I can't believe how easy it is to get your fiber if you eat this cereal. Most cereals don't have even half this much fiber in them."
,,,,,FIBER ONE,"I ENJOY A BRAKFAST CEREAL IN THE MORNING.THIS IS GREAT STUFF. WITH THIS I ADD LOW FAT VANILLA MILK, FRUIT AND NUTS. IT IS A DELICIOUS COMBINATION. ADDITIONALLY, IT IS HEALTHY IN KEEPING ME REGULAR."
,,,,,I'm eating candy-coated sawdust.,"I'm actually eating candy coated sawdust.<br /><br />I know that chicory root is a tree... that I'm eating sawdust... but there's so much sugar I can't stop.  It doesn't really taste like caramel to me.  It felt more like drinking maple syrup out of the bottle.  If you've tried it, you'll probably agree.  It's like eating maple syrup.<br /><br />I'm going to do some research now because I'm having trouble thinking or breathing.  The beeping from my insulin pump isn't helping.<br /><br />Carbs in 1 serving Count Chocula: 23<br />Carbs in 1 serving Trix: 18<br />Carbs in 1 serving Crunch Berries: 29<br />Carbs in 1 serving Reece's Puffs: 23<br /><br />Carbs in 1 serving Fiber One Caramel Delight Cereal: 41"
,,,,,Great cereal,"I really enjoy this cereal, it's really sweet so I mix it with the unsweetened fiber one original. And a great price!"
,,,,,It helps you poop!,"The title says it all, but seriously this stuff is great. I've tried other high fiber cereals, like Kashi, that just taste like leaves and twigs. This cereal tastes great and it's high in fiber. That's usually a difficult combo to find. The subscribe & save price also beats my local grocery store, so get yourself a bowl and get poopin'! :-)"
,,,,,Love it,"I used to only like Fiber One honey cluster, but now I love it more. I like the texture. However, it is a little sweet for me, but don't get me wrong. It is just me and it is only 11g of sugar per serving."
,,,,,LOOKING FOR HEALTHY AND FLAVORFUL?  STOP HERE!,"I was just starting to think about healthy foods, granola, fiber etc, and I already tried the ""Cascadian Farms Maple Brown Sugar Granola Cereal, 17-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 5)"" which isn't as healthy and great tasting as this!!  If you know about Weight Watchers points, you'll know what I'm talking about next.  I have one of those Weight Watcher cards from a few years back *ahem* and I calculated that 1 cup of this is only 2 points.  (The granola cereal was 3/4 cup for 4 points)<br /><br />I didn't think they could make such a good cereal with such low points!  It's those 9 grams of fiber!  I love it!<br /><br />FYI - I paid $6.72 (with subscribe and save) for a box of 4.  I like to post what I paid to help others in their decision at the time of purchase since prices change so frequently here.<br /><br />HAPPY EATING!"
,,,,,BEST cereal ever! I can't get enough.,"Far and away the best cereal I've ever had! My husband and I literally go through at least a box a week. We have started ordering by the case because it's hard to find in our area.<br /><br />Yes, it's sweet, but I'm a dyed in the wool Frosted Flakes fan, so it wasn't too sweet for me. If you look at many 'healthy' cereals, they have sugar too - a cup of FOCD is only 40 calories more than Special K Red Berries (my old 'healthy' cereal.).<br /><br />I think the taste is rather like Golden Grahams - not a lot of cinnamon that I could detect to make it taste like Cinnamon Toast Crunch (a healthy substitute would be the new Total Cinnamon Crunch).<br /><br />5 stars!"
,,,,,Product Great - Shipping/Billing Error,"The product is great as a cereal or snack.  It's a very tasty and convenient way to get extra fiber in your diet. Problem occurred when only one 15.6 ounce box was shipped, but I was billed for the 4 pack.  Customer Service quickly addressed the issue, but I discontinued the ""auto ship""."
,,,,,Yummy...and good for you!,"This cereal packs a punch.  It has a tremendous amount of fiber yet tastes like a delicious ""regular"" cereal.  My 3 and 5 year old boys love it!"
,,,,,Pure health!,"The best in fiber, as crunchy flakes.  Great as is or topped with fruit plus added skim milk or yogurt and you have a fresh start to your day!"
,,,,,Yuck!,I tried this once and just tossed a whole box in the garbage.  The cereal looks like Cinnamon Toast Crunch but it taste like some sort of fake caramel substitute.  It has a powdery coating that is worse than the butt end of a regular box of cereal with all the broken crumbs in the bottom.  The carmel flavor tastes fake and almost made me gag a few times.
,,,,,Sugary but high in fiber,"As a young guy im concerned with taste and also fiber content. This is high in sugar/carbs but it's entirely justified for the great taste and the high fiber. No other cereal taste this good and is moderately good for you. Other fiber one cereals maybe healthier, but they taste like pinecones and sticks."
,,,,,"Wow, it's like eating ""Cinnamon Toast Crunch"" - but good for you!","General Mills keeps stepping up with each new flavor in the Fiber One cereal line. As good as the Honey Clusters and Raisin Bran varieties are, this one may be the most fun to eat and will have you pouring yourself a bowl faster than you can run to the toilet (it is Fiber One, after all). The great thing is the taste, which is very reminiscent of Cinnamon Toast Crunch. The squares in this cereal are dusted (seemingly) with cinnamon (or caramel as the flavor claims) sugar. Great cereal."
,,,,,"Yummy, yummy, yummy!",Even my children love this cereal... very similar to a cinnamon toast cereal that is out there.
,,,,,Fiber None,"Fiber one products actually don't have real fiber.  They contain inulin (from chicory root) which is technically fiber because the body can't digest it.  Unfortunately fiber is defined by anything that can't be broken down easily.  These products do not contain REAL fiber. (The real fiber usually found in whole grain breads and bran cereals) So if it says ""chicory root"" or ""inulin"" in the ingredients, you can be sure you aren't eating the fiber your body can actually use.  So if you want lots of sugar and fat without fiber, this product is for you."
,,,,,heavenly.,"if you like caramel. and you also want a low-fat, filling, high fiber & tasty snack, this is perfect for you. i love these bars!"
,,,,,absolutely the best!,"I've tried many different brands of rose jams and was alway disappointed because they were too sweet with very little flower flavoring. I'm so glad I found the Kafka brand of Rose Preserves because this tastes exactly as it should with subtle aroma of rose (you know you're getting the real thing in the Kafkas brand because you can see some bits of the petals in the jam!). This is great alone on toast, or paired with cream cheese or goat cheese. Even scoop some on a good brand of vanilla ice cream. Be creative! This is delicious!"
,,,,,Delicately sweet and rosey,"I seem to have a love affair with roses.  I've always admired their beauty and fragrance. and then few years ago, I discovered they are edible.  The first time I tasted rose jam, I was in Vancouver, BC.  It was served on buttery vanilla scones.  I knew I had to take some home with me.  Since then, I've tried 2 other brands.  The Kafka is quite good and actually has real bits of rose petals in it which really boosts that sweet flowery flavor in your mouth.  It has just the right amount of sweetness too.  My only beef is, I found them at my local imports store for only $3.89.  I spent nearly $15 ordering them from Amazon."
,,,,,delicious!!!!,"This is the best jelly I've ever had. You get rose petal from every small bite of the jelly, and it's not overwhelmingly sweet. Taste so rosy!"
,,,,,So good!,"I first tried Rose Preserves at an Algerian restaurant and I was hooked. They are absolutely amazing and so delicious. I knew I had to get a jar of my own.<br /><br />This is now a staple in my household. I use Rose Preserves on all sorts of things but crepes are probably my favorite. Rose Preserves go wonderfully with both sweet and savory foods. Try it with goat cheese or Brie, you will not be disappointed. It's also divine over ice cream. And do not get me started on how great it is for baking...<br /><br />These preserves are quite sweet, so a little really does goes a long way (which is nice, the jar lasts quite a while even when I use it often). They're high quality and the flavor cannot be beat. I highly recommend these!"
,,,,,Exquisite! An elegant addition to the breakfast table or tea tray,"I am in love with everything rose. I wear rose lotion ( <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000087L6T"">Rose Milk Skin Care Lotion - 8 fl oz</a>), I burn rose candles (<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00069ZDJS"">Yankee Candle Large 22-Ounce Jar Candle, Fresh Cut Roses</a> and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004OEWDH6"">Votivo Aromatic Candle Rush Of Rose</a>), I use rose lip balm (<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0049XKXRY"">Rose Love Balm (Limited Edition) - 15ml/0.5oz</a>) and I drink rose tea (<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0017SZTRI"">Teas' Tea Rose Green Unsweetened Tea, 16.9-Ounce Bottles (Pack of 12)</a>.) I seriously surround myself with anything rosy!<br /><br />So when I saw this, *rose preserves*, literally preserves made with real rose petals, I couldn't wait to try it. Oh, the wait was incredible! When it finally arrived I didn't even wait for the toaster, I grabbed a spoon and dug right in!<br /><br />It's delicious. Divine. Extraordinary. It feels absolutely indulgent, eating a jam made of roses. It's so romantic and positively Victorian. There couldn't be a daintier dollop for your scones at tea time.<br /><br />So far I've had rose preserves on waffles, toast, ice cream, fresh fruit & yogurt, and coffee cake. I daresay it would even make a unique sweetener for hot tea.<br /><br />Speaking of sweet, that is my one issue. I find these preserves to be really much sweeter than I generally like; I prefer a bit more tartness, even in jams. Don't get me wrong: it's not overpoweringly sweet, there *is* a definite rose flavor in this, and definitely real petals adding unique flavor and texture. I just wish it weren't quite so sweet. But apparently, according to another reviewer who has tried other brands, Kafkas Rose Preserves are the *least* sugary! Any bit sweeter and it would definitely overpower the delicate rose flavor.<br /><br />So, while I can't give it a full 5 stars because I think it's too sweet -  and by the way I sure wish I could only deduct a half star -  I acknowledge that Kafkas Rose Preserves might be the best available. I certainly won't stop putting it on everything and yes, occasionally enjoying a tiny spoonful!<br /><br />I'm going to host a little tea party for my two little nieces and our American Girls dolls (My <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0010XH10I"">American Girl Samantha Doll & Paperback Book</a>, Joelle's <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000ZHY3H4"">American Girl Julie Doll and Paperback Book</a>, and Lisey's <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001BZYZAO"">American Girl Kit Kittredge Doll & Paperback Book</a>) and I know the girls will get a kick out of eating jam made of flower petals! I'm also looking forward to my extended family's next brunch, because I will be proudly serving up some rose preserves. In fact, I may be giving out Kafkas Rose Preserves as hostess gifts in lieu of the boring bottles of moscato or prosecco I'm forever dragging to parties. This would be promptly opened and enjoyed, I'm sure of it!<br /><br />If you're a rose lover, or looking for a unique gift, perhaps a cute and clever new spin on ""a bouquet of roses and a box of candy"", I highly recommend these rose preserves!"
,,,,,Best in show!,Condiments add such vibrancy and depth to dishes and this mustard can stand alone!.  I had read about this mustard on a food blog written by a former Chez Panisse chef.  I knew I had to try it.  I'm hooked!  It is a sublime addition to vinaigrette but when spread on rye bread with a few slices of ham ......love at first bite!
,,,,,Best mustard ever,This mustard was given to me by a client. This is truly the best Dijon mustard I have ever had!  I highly recommend it. I put it on literally everything. The other night my husband and I slathered it onto steaks. Delicious!
,,,,,Amazing customer service,"When I ordered this product, I was too lazy to convert ""3-4 mm"" to inches and consequently discovered the ""Coarse Grinder Salt"" was almost 1/4"" (1/6"" to be exact), way too coarse for my salt grinder.  Shortly after receiving my order from Amazon, I received a courtesy email from the Spice Lab to make sure I was happy with my order.  I replied that actually I was not happy, but the fault was mine because I didn't convert the metric dimensions to English units and consequently didn't realize how coarse the salt would be, which was too coarse for my salt mill.  Two days later I received a package of smaller crystals, no charge.  That's amazing customer service!"
,,,,,Product changed....,"This product seems to have replaced a similar previous product (Natural Himalayan Crystal Salt). The previous prodcut was a deeper pink color and the texture was better than what I was finding elsewhere. This new product (Himalayan Organic Natural Unprocessed Cooking Salt) is much more like what the competitors are selling. I've enjoyed all my products from The Spice Lab, but was disappointed with the replacent for this product."
,,,,,Great salt,"This pink salt has a very nice subtle flavor. I didn't know salt could vary in flavor until I tried this one. We bought the salt initially because (a) it's organic and (b) my daughter wanted pink salt! But the flavor is what really made the difference. I don't know much about salt, but I want to say that this has a ""rounded"" flavor meaning it isn't harsh or distinctive on food, rather it seems to become part of the food, going in and bringing back the flavor of the food in an enhanced way. Sounds silly, but I am learning good quality ingredients really make a difference."
,,,,,For more than salting foods.,"Yes, I do use this product for salting some of my foods, but it also has another handy use. Because the grains of salt are much larger than normal, I use this salt to clean my cast iron grill and skillet. I pour one or two tablespoons of salt on the slightly warm grill or skillet, and rub the salt into the bottom and sides of the pans with a wadded up paper towel. The salt even quickly makes short work of cleaning the RIDGED bottom of my cast iron grill pan. Works perfectly. I usually keep two or three packages of this product on my spices shelf because I use it frequently both for salting food and cleaning the cast iron."
,,,,,"Intensely salty, healthy salt","We were pleased with this salt. It's actually more salty than regular salt, even kosher salt or sea salt.  A little bit goes a long way!  I don't usually cook with it, but add it to things afterwards. I've been hand grinding it."
,,,,,Fluoride Content An Issue?,"Not sure, but have been reading about Himalayan salt and apparently there is a high fluoride in this salt according to several reviews I've read, and that's not so good.  However, it looks very nice in my salt mill and tastes much better than Morton salt and I don't use it everyday.  Also, it's mined in Pakistan if that really matters."
,,,,,"super fast shipping, free samples","placed the order on tuesday, received it on saturday with the cheapest shipping; super faster. the himalayan salt comes in a sealed ziploc bag that has a bottom that allows it to sit up vertically which is convenient for storage especially if you have way too many spices and sacks of beans and sugars and what not like me. in addition, it came with 3 samples (himalayan salt, lemon citron flake salt, and cyprus white flake salt) weighing quite a few grams each (sorry, doesn't say the weight and i don't have a scale with me at the moment).<br /><br />as far as product quality goes, i typically buy my himalayan salt from whole foods and aesthetically this salt look exactly like the salt i get from whole foods. i haven't tasted it yet, but i bet it tastes like salt. of course price wise this salt (the spice lab) is WAY cheaper than buying himalayan salt at whole foods (even including shipping)."
,,,,,Excellent!,"This is a great salt; it has a wholesome flavor and, I noticed it doesn't make you thirsty or rise the blood pressure as regular salt does. That's the benefit of the natural balance of minerals in it. I would recommend this to friends and health conscious people."
,,,,,Wonderful product!!,"This salt is so pink and taste like the ocean, I love it. Make sure to buy a grinder of some sort if you plan to use it on salads or sprinkle on cold dishes."
,,,,,Excellent Flavor,This is the first time I have used land mined salt.  I usually use salt from various sea sources.  After reading several reviews here on Amazon I decided to try this salt.  I was very pleasantly surprised the first time I tasted the salt. The flavor was fresh and subtle.  Not like the salt you usually buy in the grocery stores. Plus it has a lot of trace minerals your body needs.  I highly recommend this salt.
,,,,,I love this salt,I love pink himalayan salt! It is loaded with minerals and taste great.  I don't have to use as much as the conventional table salt and I don't feel bad about using it because I know that it's also really good for my body.
,,,,,What I have been looking for....,"The product has far fewer pink crystals than shown in the picture, which is perfectly fine with me.  The salt is coarse, excellent for salt mills.  It tastes great and the size is what I wanted and haven't been able to find elsewhere.  The price and service is excellent, as well."
,,,,,the only salt I use--except herbamare and trocomare,"I have not purchased this from Amazon yet as still on what I purchased elsewhere BUT I noticed many people buying the one pound bag. Just to let you know: one kilo equals 2.2 lbs. Why would you buy the one pound bag on something that never goes bad when you can get more than double for just a few dollars more.<br /><br />Dr. Mercola's comments regarding Himalaya salt benefits are what started me using this initially a few years ago. Many micronutrients, great purity. One person questioned the iodine: no salt naturally contains iodine unless it is iodized or contains some sort of seaweed. You can easily see his comments at mercola.com.<br /><br />Himalaya salt has a very 'clean' taste--add at the end of cooking."
,,,,,Good Quality & Good Service,"I bought Himalayan Organic Salt twice. Each time, quality was really good and service was fast and courteous (The Spice Lab's). I will buy it again."
,,,,,Wonderful product,"I was very pleased with the Himalayan salt. It really does taste much better than ordinary salt and you can actually taste some of the other minerals in it. I would describe it like licking a salty rock, but in a good way. Very pleased and will be buying more."
,,,,,Himalayan course salt,"I have never ordered sea salt before. i thought this was great. I was afraid it would have some additional flavor that I wouldnt like. Instead it was fresh tasting & natural. I like the pink color, but glad it doesnt come out pink."
,,,,,Very good salt for a very good price,"I'll certainly be a repeat customer. I had a tough time finding large salt crystals to refill a grinder, but this fit the bill nicely.<br /><br />Flavor is clean with slight minerality. The color is not a deep as some other himalayan pink I've seen, but it's a very good finishing salt, and a good conversation piece when put on the table in a clear grinder.<br /><br />Also, the seller included a coupon for a future purchase in the package, which was a nice bonus."
,,,,,so yummy!,This salt has a slightly earthy taste. It is moderately coarse. I bought a ceramic grinder for when I would like to have it a little finer. I love this salt!
,,,,,Great for cooking and baths,Great salt! Though now that I know how great it is I will have to buy a bigger bag next time. Mixed with some epsom salt and essential oils this makes a great bath salt. Ground up a bit finer it is wonderful for cooking. Will certainly buy again.
,,,,,Love this salt!,"I had been told that Himalayan salt was much better for you.  After shopping around, I found the best deal was through Amazon.  It came in a heavy resealable bag and works great in my salt mill.  I would buy this again and recommend it to my friends."
,,,,,Perfect!,I use this salt very liberally now especially after finding out that its table salt you really need to avoid.  Our bodies need salt to live and this is the purest kind out there.  I plan to make this salt a part of my regular diet.
,,,,,Himalayan Salt,"I love this salt!!  The delivery was quick, the price was reasonable and the salt imparts a wonderful flavor to everything I eat!  And, it doesn't burn my tongue!  I will be using this salt for ever more!"
,,,,,Great product.,I absolutely love this salt.  The flavor is awesome and at a great price.  No more box salt for me.
,,,,,Great Product,I discovered this salt about 2 years ago and have not looked back. I love it. The Spice Lab gives you a high quality product for a great price. It is hard to describe Himalayan salt - you get more salty goodness without using so much. It is delicious!
,,,,,Great coarse salt,"Great buy!  Fantastic taste and pleasing pink hue from the iron content.  I prefer a grinding salt, and this one is unprocessed for it's better for you."
,,,,,"Slightly pink in color, but salt non-the-less.","Can't tell it is any different than normal salt, except for a slight pink tinge. But if it has all the great minerals and stuff... all the better!"
,,,,,Great taste!,"This salt is so tasty!  It tastes nothing like the iodized table salt.  This has a light, mild taste that greatly enhances meats, vegetables, etc.  It's pink/peach color also looks very pretty in my clear Cole/Mason grinder.  It grinds very finely with no issue.  In fact, this salt grinds so finely that it leaves a fine coating, almost like a powder, around the inside of the clear grinder.  If you're a neat freak, this might bug you a little and you might find yourself wiping out the top of the grinder.  Great salt and the bag lasts a long time."
,,,,,Awesome!,Just like in the store for a fraction of the price. I purchased this to refill my expensive pink salt grinder. A million times better than table salt. I don't know if it tastes any different from regular table salt but I think there is something about the shape of the crystals that changes the way the salt hits your tongue. If you have a good grinder I highly recommend checking this stuff out.
,,,,,Great Salt - difficult to grind,"This salt is great and way cheaper than any of the local spice shops. It does seem more difficult to grind than other himilayan salts I have tried, but doing a little at a time makes it well worth it. Would i buy it again?? YES"
,,,,,top notch,this is a fine example of mineral-rich himalayan salt. The packaging also keeps it fresh. It comes in a zip-seal pouch.
,,,,,Himalayan Salt,Fast service and item was exactly as described. Would purchase from this seller again. They even sent along more information on this salt and others as well as sent me some samples.
,,,,,Great stuff,"This is my kids favorite of the salts at the moment.  I like it too, and will keep it in my collection. Great deal also, and great company to do business with."
,,,,,Good salt,"The bag was smaller than I expected, but that's probably just me being bad at estimating things.  The salt seems good, however, I was a little disappointed that the photo showed the salt to be much more vibrantly colored than they actually are.  I mean, they are pink, just not so bright pink as it shows.  The salt has a good flavor though.  I'd say it was worth the price."
,,,,,Difficult packaging,"Salt tastes fine, cant say about the health claims. 3 stars is because of the packaging. The grinder top is too large for a comfortable grind. I have fairly large/strong hands and have a hard time turning the grinder. For me, when the grinder is mostly vertical to 45deg, it is difficult/impossible to grind directly onto food. Works fine if cap is left on & held in a horizontal position & them remove cap & use. The grind gives a nice fine grind (better than my OXO I also got at Amazon)."
,,,,,Fantastic Salt,"I got this for work, as I am a cook. Everyone noticed that I have had a change in the flavors of my food. They said it was a good change. Personally I have enjoyed useing the salt in different foods. I do like it very much."
,,,,,Pink Himalayan Course Grain Salt,"I use this Pink Himalayan course grain salt in salt grinders because it looks great, but also I make my own homemade Herbal Salt using Rosemary, Lemon Thyme and Pink Himalayan course grain salt...tastes great and look great in the grinders and shakers.  I've very satisfied.  I plan on making up some more Herbal Salts for Christmas gifts using this Pink Himalayan salt.  Very satisfied!"
,,,,,Excellent salt,"We grind our salt/pepper/spices fresh and this is out salt of choice.  It's milder than regular table salt, which allows for more precise control of how salty you want your foods."
,,,,,HIMALAYAN SEA SALT,"The Spice Lab is a completely wonderful company!!!<br />I received my order promptly. The salt is very high quality and a beautiful pink color.<br />Due to my miscalculation, I ordered crystals that were too big for my grinder.<br />I sent a note and asked if I could exchange it for smaller crystals.<br />Customer service answered quickly and said ""They were sending me a bag of smaller crystals"" completely free.<br />How wonderful of them!!!<br />You don't see that very often these days. I commend Spice Lab for having such wonderful ""customer service!"" I am now a dedicated customer!!! Thank you Spice Lab for my quality salt!! I am going to make ""Sole"" and cook with it every day!!!"
,,,,,SALT OF THE EARTH - Himalayan Style,"Silly me, I didn't even know there was such a thing as pink Himalayan salt.  A friend actually mentioned it to me as we were discussing moving into a vegetarian life style.  So now, it's like buying a red, Ford Mustang.  It's all you see on the road or, in this case, on the shelves of the stores.<br /><br />I'm actually glad I purchased this and have stopped using regular old white salt almost totally.  The salt does seem to have a milder taste but I don't find myself using any more of it than I did with the good old ""when it rains it pours"" variety.<br /><br />Since ordering this from Amazon, I've managed to find some here in my little town but it is way expensive.  When you purchase this you will also need a salt grinder unless you like throwing big chunks of salt at your food.  Worth getting the two together, however, especially if you purchase a grinder with a glass container as the salt really looks attractive in a pretty, transparent grinder.  And, of course, it tastes good, too.  About it's nutritional value I admit to knowing zip.  Does salt HAVE nutritional value?  In the meantime, I give this four stars.  If I find out more about the actual food value I'll update this review."
,,,,,Pink it was love at first sight!,"Best Pink Salt On The Planet! It will make all your dishes taste better. Spice Lab's is a trusted seller!<br /><br />Pink it's my new obsession<br />Pink it's not even a question,<br />Pink on the lips of your lover, 'cause<br />Pink is the love you discover<br /><br />Pink as the bing on your cherry<br />Pink 'cause you are so very<br />Pink it's the color of passion<br />'Cause today it just goes with the fashion<br /><br />Pink it was love at first sight<br />Pink when I turn out the light, and<br />Pink gets me high as a kite<br />And I think everything is going to be all right<br />No matter what we do tonight<br /><br />You could be my flamingo<br />'Coz pink is the new kinda lingo<br />Pink like a deco umbrella<br />It's kink - but you don't ever tell her<br /><br />Pink it was love at first sight, and<br />Pink when I turn out the light<br />Pink gets me high as a kite<br />And I think everything is going to be all right<br />No matter what we do tonight<br /><br />I want to be your lover<br />I wanna wrap you in rubber<br />As pink as the sheets that we lay on<br />Pink it's my favorite crayon, yeah<br /><br />Pink it was love at first sight<br />Pink when I turn out the light<br />Pink it's like red but not quite<br />And I think everything is going to be all right<br />No matter what we do tonight"
,,,,,I like it,i put it in a glass jar for chow watmore ken i talk about it is pink salt i resifet it fest
,,,,,Paprika supplier,I ordered this product as my previous paprika supply was nearing exhaustion.  My previous supply was the same brand and also in the 18 ounce package.  For some reason these large containers are no longer available in my local grocery stores so I turned to the internet for help.  To date I have not used any of this paprika but well when my current supply of homemade BBQ sauce is exhausted.<br /><br />I had not previously purchased from this supplier however the shipment delivery was prompt and it was well packaged.  I am very satisfied with the supplier and would not hesitate to purchase from them again.
,,,,,not what I expected,"Actually typed in ""smoked paprika"". This showed up so I ordered it and it is definatly NOT smoked!  Also, these bottles sell for 4.95 at Sam's. So, not only was it the wrong item but, I over paid also!"
,,,,,Dont let the name fool you...,This is regular Paprika you buy in the grocery store. Its good and a great price.
,,,,,turtle power,For a friend who loves jellies and turtles . He said they were soft and chewy just the ways he likes them and even though they were his favourite animal he couldn't stop eating em .
,,,,,Needs more lemon flavor,"Not much of a lemon flavor for lemon cookies, more on the sweet side.  Coconut is listed in the ingredients, but you certainly won't taste it.  My son liked them, so they won't go to waste.  I would not buy them again."
,,,,,the perfect commuter dog treat,Not too dry<br />Not too wet<br />Not too hard<br />Not too soft<br /><br />Perfect for when you want to give your dog a treat and are heading out the door.  By the time you open the door and turn around to check on him the treat has been chomped to bit and swallowed  not fear of a choking while you walk out.
,,,,,Another great protein drink from Mix1!,"I am in love with the Mix 1 line of protein drinks.  As someone with a sensitive stomach, it has always been a challenge for me to find protein drinks that don't irritate my stomach and also taste great and have a good nutritional profile.  Mix 1 is the only brand I've found that meets all of these requirements.<br /><br />I ordered the Vanilla shake as soon as I saw that it was available on Amazon.  I really enjoy it!<br /><br />It has a very natural vanilla flavour and does not taste artificial like most vanilla-flavoured protein drinks.  It tastes like a delicious vanilla milkshake but without the heaviness of a real milkshake.  The consistency of this shake is a little bit thinner than the regular Mix 1 protein drinks that I am used to, but it is definitely not watery.  I really like it for breakfast, because in the morning I don't usually feel like downing a whole one of the regular Mix 1 protein drinks with the slightly thicker consistency...I prefer those in the afternoon."
,,,,,1 Of The Best.,"I think this is one of the best protein shakes on the market. All natural with 15 grams of protein and 3 grams of fiber, Mix 1 is light tasting and almost 'refreshing'. Great for pre or post work outs or just inbetween meals for a protein boost. Great for vegetarians and those who are soy/lacrtose intolerant. I love the vanilla one and I am a chocolate person."
,,,,,LOVE,I love to have the vanilla mix 1 for breakfast or after s run...it took me forever to find a drink that was both lactose and soy free....my tummy LOVE'S. Mix 1!
,,,,,Love Mix1 for post-recovery after a long run or bike ride!,"Mix1 is my favorite post-recovery drink after a long run or bike ride.  I especially like the Vanilla mix1.  It goes down easy and smooth and is very refreshing.  It is a great recovery/protein drink with lots of extra vitamins, minerals & nutrients thrown in. Some protein drinks are too thick or chalky or just don't taste very good.  Mix1 is my favorite.  I know it is replenishing my body after a hard workout."
,,,,,Erin T,"mix 1 vanilla is really great and versatile stuff.  For starters, I love that the protein source is whey and not soy.  They also use real ingredients and are locally made in Boulder, CO.  mix 1 is great as a meal replacement, meal supplement, snack, recovery drink.  Since they don't require refridgeration, I keep on in my ski bag as a apres-ski drink (I get hungry on the drive back into town and mix 1 works great).  I also do triathlons and find that mix 1 is great as a pre-race meal and doesn't upset my stomach later on while I'm racing.  Finally, mix 1 is a perfect recovery drink after a long workout."
,,,,,"nutrition value, taste worth the calories","Unlike some other faux milk sports drink, Mix1 is worth the calories.<br />Pros: *Easily digestible with a good mouth feel (not sour or slimy)<br />  *The nutritional value (vitamins and minerals) makes it worth the calorie expenditure<br />  *Unlike some rival products, tastes like vanilla, not overly sweet or fake.<br />  *Haven't tried it but would probably make a good smoothie w/fresh or frozen fruit<br />Cons: *Can be pricey and hard to find<br />  *Not a vegan product because it contains milk solids--can't recommend to vegan friends<br />  *Unlike the recyclable plastic bottles the fruit Mix1 flavors come in, the tetrapaks used for the chocolate and vanilla flavors are hard to drink without a straw.<br /><br />But overall, I recommend Vanilla Mix1, especially since recently my favorite Mix1 flavor, blueberry vanilla has disappeared from the shelves."
,,,,,Great ingredients and quality product,So much better than other protein products in drugstores or even GNC. Taste great and doesn't fill up like other shakes do so you can work out after quickly. Relatively cheap for all the good things you get with it.
,,,,,Don't Buy It!!!,"I was introduced to this brand in Aruba. This coffee is sold in Aruba's supermarkets and jar label is in spanish.<br />When I found it at Amazon I was very excited. I was immediately disappointed after first cup.<br />Coffee in Aruba is rich, tasty and very smooth. My wife and I had been enjoying this brand for more than 10 years.<br />The coffee sold in US is complete opposite to same brand sold in Aruba. I don't know why the same brand would be so<br />different unless it is a grey market product with a look alike label.<br />."
,,,,,"Rich, Dark and Delicious!!","Love this Coffee!  If you like a strong, dark, rich tasting cup of coffee this coffee is for you.  Another plus is that this coffee is easy on the stomach (not too acidic).  I will be coming back to Amazon for more."
,,,,,WAY TOO SPICY,"It's all cayenne and not authentic bebere. way too spicy, threw it out and made my own."
,,,,,One of my Favorites,"I discovered this hot sauce while traveling around in Belize, it's on most tables in a lot of restaurants.  It has a lovely tang from the grapefruit, and is not tongue burning off hot, but a pleasing gentle heat.  I am never without!"
,,,,,my cats wouldn't eat it...,my finicky cats wouldn't eat this food so I gave it to my neighbor who rescues cats so the food wouldn't go to waste...
,,,,,Very palatable and healthy food!,"Right now I own 3 cats that I found outside, a good eight years ago, and I found another cat which I adopted also.  I have always fed them Eukanuba Adult Lamb&Rice dry cat food, and they truly LOVE IT!  When you first open the bag you can smell the savory aroma!  Of the 3 cats that I found outdoor and adopted, one turned out to be a Turkish Angora and the other has markings similar to that of a snow leopard, and the third cat I found out is part Egyptian mau.  I also feed a feral cat who has been living in my back yard for 10 years.  They all love this food, and even when they changed the formula of this food a few years ago, they still eat it and love it!  If you read the ingredients, it is excellently made, and a real plus for their diet!  They've been eating it for years now, and I have yet to see any of my cats turn up their nose to this food.<br /><br />The other dry foods that my cats love is Fancy Feast Gourmet Filet Mignon Flavor with Real Seafood & Shrimp Dry Cat Food and they've just started eating Eagle Pack Natural Pet Food, Indoor Formula for Cats and a cat food brand called 'Artemis'.  I haven't any problems with them eating any of these dry foods, and I've been rescuing cats for over 30 years now, and have owned as many as 7 cats at one time.  One set of kittens were born outdoor and I brought them indoors with their mother and kept them all until the day they passed on(they all lived to be close to 20 years of age) and they too ate Eukanuba lamb&rice and loved it!<br /><br />I have had foods that they turned up their nose with like 'Chicken Soup' and 'Taste of the Wild'.  The same way we humans have our likes and dislikes is the same way that these cats have their likes and dislikes.  What's good for one cat might not be good for another.  You just have to learn your cat, and see what they like and just give it to them.  While my cats are in love with Eukanuba lamb&rice, maybe your cat will also or maybe not, but it isn't fair to not try this food because of a review where the owner says that their cat doesn't like it. As previously stated, maybe your cat will not like it or maybe your cat will love it!  I've tried cat foods based on good reviews figuring that the food will automatically be a hit and sometimes it was and sometimes it wasn't!  It's all up to the cat!"
,,,,,Delicious!,"I was searching for a source of pure vanilla, without any fillers, but without the hassle of the vanilla bean.<br />This ground vanilla is amazing. No fillers, easy to use, amazing taste and aroma.<br />I will be purchasing this again!"
,,,,,Delicious breakfast tea,"This is a wonderful English Breakfast tea- nicely flavorful without being either too bold or too bland. Makes a wonderful morning tea without any sort of bitterness or tang-y taste to it. It's a nice comfort tea and a good start to loose teas for anyone who has been using bags and doesn't know which flavor loose teas to start with.<br /><br />I recommend brewing as follows: 2 teaspoons to 12-16 ounces of boiling water for 3.5 minutes. If you overbrew (particularly Adagio's teas), there's a chance for bitterness, so I would not recommend leaving it in the water for a long time.<br /><br />Another recommendation is Adagio's Irish Breakfast (which I slightly prefer) but both teas are standouts!"
,,,,,Heaven In A Tin,"I've been drinking other brands of black tea, but I'm going to switch to this one. Other English Breakfast mixes taste like strong black tea. Good, but not worth writing about. This one tastes like ... I can't put names to all the things happening in my mouth; but I know the blend is worth every penny."
,,,,,all right by me !!!,"Gatorade was an acquired taste for me; but these days I can't stop drinking it. It's full of electrolytes and it does indeed have very few calories especially when you consider how it helps you rehydrate at the same time. You can drink this either cold from the refrigerator or warm from the shelf; I like it either way and actually when I drink it warm the flavor tastes even better.<br /><br />This pack comes in three flavors: fruit punch, lemon-lime and grape.<br /><br />The only negative I can think of is that this does have sugar (and carbs) in it; if you have concerns about sugar in your diet you should talk to your physician before drinking this.<br /><br />Highly recommended."
,,,,,The best chocolates,"These chocolates are made in small batches in Kohler Wisconsin. We use to drive to Kohler to buy them. It's good to know that you can order them on Amazon. Each piece has an amazing combination of flavors and textures. I particularly enjoy the ones with molasses, they are called Blackstrap terrapins. Let me know if you like them."
,,,,,Low germination rates.,"These seeds are on the edge of their sell by date. (11/11)  Not very good for the small scale gardener who wants to save some for next year.  Germination rates are at about 1/4.  Too early to tell much about the plants, but I will update again if they do well."
,,,,,Seeds of Change S10810 Certified Organic Italian White Eggplant,I come from a family of professional gardeners and I cannot grow plants to save my life. These seeds however did get started and actually grew a few inches...... however the rabbits in our garden thought the plants very tasty so clearly there is nothing wrong with the product ...it's the gardener!
,,,,,Don't buy from this company,"I get around a shipment a week all year round from Amazon, and I can not remember ever writing a review. But I am making a point of expressing my anger over this product. I buy lots of tea from many sources and white peony is one of my favorites. The package says it is organic and of the finest quality. It was possibly the worst tea I have ever tasted. In fact, after a couple of pots, I actually threw nearly the whole half pound in the trash. And the price wasn't even that good. I subsequently bought a pound of excellent organic white peony from Whole Foods for less. Whatever they are, this is not a tea company."
,,,,,Huge Disappointment,"I was anticipating a fragrant unprocessed, minimally oxidized tea that is unique to all white teas. This tea could not be farther from that description. Heavily oxidized with a very strong smoky flavor. Not even palatable on a second flush. Please save your money and consider paying a few more dollars from a supplier such as Rishi or Specialteas"
,,,,,"181 Years Old, And Still The Best!","I love steak, although I don't eat it all that often anymore. When I do have a steak, though, I absolutely love the taste of A1, which brings out the best in any cut of meat. Although I am not too enthusiastic about putting it on seafood (which the label suggests as a good idea), I think it goes well with any kind of beef, and works well on chicken and turkey as well. It is an essential ingredient in many marinades, and is generally one of the most used items for meat preparation in my refrigerator.<br /><br />What many people don't realize is the long and noble history of A1, which dates to 1824. In 1824, when a king's palate reigned supreme, Henderson William Brand, chef to England's King George IV, created a sauce for King George for use on meats. King George was so impressed with it that he proclaimed it ""A1,"" and that's how the sauce got its name.<br /><br />Beyond the history lesson, though, I think King George was correct in his gustatory proclamation: this sauce really is ""A1""!"
,,,,,My Favorite Steak Sauce,"I can hardly eat a hamburger, steak, roast, or any kind of beef without A1 Sauce.  I get really annoyed when I run out of A1 Sauce.  A1 is the best steak sauce out there.  It has a great tangy, spicy flavor that enhances enjoyment of many meat products - especially beef.  And it makes tough or poor beef or steaks at least tolerable.<br /><br />A1 is the best steak sauce in my book."
,,,,,Best for Zest,"I can't believe I'm reviewing steak sauce here. But here goes. The best steaks don't need any sauce. But when you are dining on something below the sirloin cut, A1 is a mealsaver. Nothing beats it. It's also good on tenderloin, ribeye, or filet mignon,  but if the meat is top quality, you want to taste the meat, not the sauce.<br /><br />A1 is very good on hamburgers when you want a little zip. I especially like it on 95% lean ground sirloin burgers. The leaner the meat, the more you need a little something else to give it some zip. Ketchup gets the job done, but A1 is a nice detour from the ordinary."
,,,,,Outstanding Service and Quality!,"I live overseas and bought this for a friend living in the USA who just had a baby recently. I wanted to make an impression by sending her and her husband a nice present but not the usual (clothing, toys, etc). I decided to go with flowers but wanted to make sure they were the very best. I reviewed other roses suppliers and found out that Spring In The Air actually cuts the roses directly from the farm in Colombia and ships them right away via FedEx, while others are just waiting for orders to come in and their inventory is sitting in a warehouse somewhere in the USA.<br /><br />With that said I was sure that my roses were going to live even longer. Probably a week or two more, compared to other roses bought at Amazon. In addition, for the price my bet was that they were going to be top quality. So I gave them a try.<br /><br />The results: they exceeded my expectations and raised the bar. Firstly their communication goes far beyond usual Amazon sellers, they keep you posted on how your order is doing (received, being processed and sent) plus they give you instructions in order to guarantee long life of the flowers (nice) and also advise on how to proceed if nobody is available to receive the roses when FedEx first attempts to do so.<br /><br />I wrote to the seller to see if I could have a change in the from-to card I initially sent in my order and they answered promptly and nicely upon my request, even on a weekend.<br /><br />Roses arrived when promised and an hour later I was receiving a phone call from my friend and her entire family saying how beautiful there roses were, how fresh they look and that they had never seen roses with that outstanding quality. I was relieved. The plan worked perfectly!<br /><br />Thank you Spring In The Air. I will surely buy from you again. Please keep up the good job, great service and outstanding roses you have."
,,,,,INSURANCE WILL PAY for hypoallergenic formula!!,"Hypoallergenic formula was necessary for our daughter's acid reflux.<br /><br />We found out from a friend that most insurance companies will completely cover the cost of hypoallergenic formula, either by reimbursing you what you've spent on it, or if you get it as a prescription through your pediatrician. Ours did!<br /><br />Many doctors don't know this, so they don't know to give a prescription for the formula. Call your insurance company today!"
,,,,,A little goes a long way,"I love this syrup, it doesnt have all those added ingredients, its not like dark amber syrup thats extra sweet. A little bit goes a long way. When i pour it on my waffles i only need to pour it in the middle and thats enough for 1 whole waffle. So if you think this little bottle wont work for big families you would be mistaken, i use half as much as i would with the fructose added syrups."
,,,,,Yorkies love these,"I buy these for my yorkies for beautiful hair and healthy hearts. They love the salmon paws with broccoli, and no diarrhea  issues<br />from the salmon, because of the broccoli. Good for their sensitive digestive systems, and nice chewy texture for their teeth, easily broken up is a big plus for tiny mouths. Seller is very prompt and never a problem."
,,,,,The best cocktail pepperoni on the market!,"After Oberto cocktail pepperoni, no other will do.  It keeps well, and is a great low carb snack for the Atkins dieter.  I also like the large 32 ounce bag Amazon has available."
,,,,,Excellent if you don't read ingredients!,"These are the same product as the Bite-Size in the smaller blue bag except that they're longer links and vary in length.<br /><br />The ingredient list is somewhat gross as it lists specific parts of the pig.  If you can get past that, the taste is unmatched!<br /><br />The Slim-Jim ingredient list was similarly disturbing to me as Slim-Jim has, as separate ingredients ""chicken"" and ""mechanically-separated chicken.""  I don't understand why one or the other doesn't cover both."
,,,,,Oh Boy! Oberto Cocktail Pep,"Very tasty gourmet food. Easy to keep and store. Easy to prepare. Could be eaten as packed or warmed in microwave, toaster oven, frying pan or directly over flame or charcoal grille. Goes well with pasta and other spanish, italian or french dishes. Best with crackers and cheese, rice, or even eaten alone. Matches well with soda, beer, wine or any beverage for that matter. Perfect to take along during trips. They are so good, I panic whenever I run out of stock!"
,,,,,Pepperoni Sticks,Ordered these for my diet. They are high in protein and only 140 calories per stick. They are great for a meal replacement as one stick will fill you up and keep you full for a long time. I have my stick during lunch at 11:30 with a glass of water and I am not hungry until dinner time at 5:30.
,,,,,"Just like I remember as a kid, but more affordable on Amazon!","With the subscribe and save option I can get these Cocktail Pep Sticks delievered to my home every 3 months. An 8 pack lasts me a while as I try not to eat them daily, even tho they are so good its hard to restrain myself! These are much cheaper on Amazon than in my local store, so I often look to Amazon for beef jerky type purchases."
,,,,,Oh boy Oberto's are #1,"You can't find these bad boys in Kentucky, so i usually have my mom ship me a bag every now and then. Thank goodness you can buy these online.... now I don't have to talk to my mom as much!!!"
,,,,,OBoy Oberto's are the best,"My kids enjoy The Cocktail Pepsticks  so iI buy them and send them to my kids<br /><br />Oh Boy! Oberto Cocktail Pepperoni (2.8-Pound) Sticks, 45-Count Bag"
,,,,,The BEST there is,"This cocktail pep is absolutely the best there is. I live somewhere that it is not sold in stores, so I am constantly buying different types of pepperoni to substitute for Oberto's Cocktail Pepperoni and none of the many that I have tried have even come close."
,,,,,VERY GOOD,"My son is in MCC in Washington State, he received these items, and so far, no complains."
,,,,,Nothing Better,Delicious pepperoni!  Been buying Oberto since 1961.  Just wish we could find these large packages in the stores.
,,,,,Cocktail Pep,Vendor provided quick service and a fresh product packaged securely.  The O Boy Oberto Cocktail Pep tasted just the way I remembered.
,,,,,Oberto Pepperoni,"Oh boy, Oberto!!!!!!!!  Love those pepperoni sticks!!!!!<br />It is nice to get a BIG supply.  I just wish they lasted longer!"
,,,,,Seattle Tradition,"My dad introduced me to these things when I was kid. We used to eat them all the time on opening day of the trout season, or deer hunting up in the cascades. My brother always calls them ""heart attack in a bag"" even though he can't stop eating them. They really are that good!"
,,,,,Absolute Best Pep Stick For The Money,I've been eating these since the early 80s. They are my favorite brand of all time. It seems they are getting impossible to find even from Oh Boy Oberta. My package arrived today and they are as fresh as the day from the factory...meaning well preserved and soft. I hope I can find more.
,,,,,"Oh Boy Oberto, Ohhhhhh Goooood.","I really enjoyed the smoked sausages, it took me nearly 3 weeks to finish.  But I would definitely purchase this again.<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0026WL13U"">Oh Boy! Oberto Cocktail Pep Smoked Sausage Sticks, 3.8-Pound Package</a>"
,,,,,Tastes Great!  Just wish they sold the larger diameter logs...,"So tasty they didn't last much longer than a week.<br /><br />I was hoping for the thicker pep logs, but these hit the spot.  I'll be ordering more until I can find a source for the larger ones outside of gas stations."
,,,,,Oberto Sausage Sticks,I have always liked Oberto sausage and these short bite sized links are very handy.
,,,,,Excellent product and deal,"I've never had any qualms with the Oberto brand and this is an excellent deal, especially as a gift subscription! $12 every two months and my dad has an essentially limitless supply of Oberto Cocktail Pepperoni. This stuff tastes so good too, I may have to steal some from him..."
,,,,,Great Product,O BOY Oberto  pep sticks and sausage sticks are the best I buy them when I get to Seattle
,,,,,Our dog loves these.....,"When we first bought these we tried to eat one and couldn't.  Looked at the ingredients and found its mostly pig hearts.  Taste is awful.  Our dog however thinks they are great so we cut them up in small pieces and hide them around for him or forage out by smell.  After about a week the contents of the bag start to mold.  Since they are for the dog, we washed them off and then store in the fridge.  Too bad we had hoped these would be good snacks for football parties etc.  Not recommended for people food."
,,,,,These used to be so much better,"Oberto Cocktail Pep used to be so much better than this. I had been buying them direct from the Oberto online store for many years and I couldn't get enough. No matter what size I ordered they were always excellent.<br /><br />However, in the past few years the quality of their cocktail pep has sure gone down. They used to be very tight and snappy when you would bite into them, the outer casing of each sausage was almost totally smooth because they were packed so tightly, and they had a superior spicy flavor.<br /><br />Nowadays they are all soft and mushy with bland, often stale, flavor. I get the impression that they are cutting corners to save a buck by not stuffing each sausage casing as tightly as they once did. I believe this allows more air to permeate the meat and causes the bad flavor that many people are complaining about.<br /><br />Every year or so I get to craving those old style cocktail pep that I loved so much and I order a package hoping that they will have changed. I keep thinking, maybe I just got a bad batch last time, but every time I am disappointed all over again."
,,,,,Best bang/buck,"This isn't the best tasting pepperoni, but it's acceptable, and you certainly get a lot of it for the money."
,,,,,Tastes a lot like dog food,"I thought this was a great deal in the warehouse deals section, but it was pretty nasty and smelled like dog food when I opened each bag.  Slim Jim is made of crap too but at least it tastes good."
,,,,,At least it's not Slim Jim,"This does NOT taste like peperoni. More like Slim Jim, except this uses real sausage casing (Slim Jim uses paper...shhh.)"
,,,,,"Great product, sloppy service","The pepperoni is fantastic, as usual.  Amazon was not. While I cancelled the order on my end (it was a duplicate of my son's), they didn't acknowledge it although I got an e-mail confirming the cancellation.  Because it was ""food"" there are no returns.  Looks like 2 bags every 3 months instead of one."
,,,,,Dog Food???,"When I first took a bite, I seriously thought I was eating dog food.  These are disgusting.  I searched the bag for ""dog food"" and the expiration date thinking that it was bad for one of those reasons.  I don't know how anyone can like these."
,,,,,horrible,"this item molded 7 days after opening (stored in air tight container) I would give it -10 if I could, Tasted very much like cereal nothing like pepperoni"
,,,,,disappointed,"this item molded 7 days after opening (stored in air tight container) I would give it -10 if I could, Tasted very much like cereal nothing like pepperoni"
,,,,,Worst meat snack I ever tried,"They taste more like chemicals than meat.  I like a lot of jerky and meat sticks, but would not eat these.  The dogs liked them though."
,,,,,Yuck!,"Oh Boy! Oberto Cocktail Pep Smoked Sausage Sticks, 32-Ounce Bag (Purchased on 02/19/2009)<br /><br />This was the worst product I have ever tasted. I have had many Oberto products, and this was nothing like what I've eaten before. Even my dog wouldn't eat them, they were so nasty tasting."
,,,,,Yuk!,"A word of caution to anyone considering buying these: Read the ingredients first! I made the mistake of thinking they would be the same as the longer (Oberto brand) ones our local Costco used to sell, so I ordered up 10 bags to get the volume discount offered at the time. I knew something wasn't right as soon as I opened up the first bag and got a whiff. Then I read the ingredients and was shocked when I saw that they actually use pork hearts as the top ingredient. To eliminate any doubt, I tasted one.. we've been using them as expensive doggy treats ever since."
,,,,,Better than dog food? Maybe!,These quickly became dog treats!  Just nasty!  I don't even know how they can sell these for human comsumption!  Stay away!
,,,,,Too bad you can't give it 0 stars!!!,"Only good use for these would be: In case of poisoning, use to induce vomiting!"
,,,,,Dog Treats,Excellent service!  Excellent Price!  Excellent Product!  I can't keep the dog off the phone telling her friends how much she is enjoying her Best Buddy Treats!  I have a very happy dog!
,,,,,Best buddy bones,My dog loves the treats!!! I have a yorkie and they are just the right size for him. I let a friend give her dog some and they loved them also.
,,,,,peanut butter flavor treats,"The seller is great. I received them in a timely manner. They shipped when they said they would. I think these are great treats. They smell fresh. The are crunchy treats. There not too hard and not too soft. My dog (Lucy) likes them but it's not her favorite. She doesn't get too excited about them, but she does eat them. That's why I didn't give them 5 stars."
,,,,,Doggie Love,"My Maltese absolutely LOVES anything that Exclusively Pets makes. But if you really want to train your pet, give him or her a cheese treat! The greatest thing about their products is that they smell exactly like whatever the package says. The cheese treats smell like Cheez It! The carob cookie treats smell like chocolate chip cookies... So forth and so on. I used to buy these locally but saved buying them online."
,,,,,3 out of 4 Paws,"First Impression: The friendly folks over at ""Exclusively Dog"" heard about my website and sent me 5 of their products to test.<br />Let me just start off by saying that I Love how sweet all of these treats taste. Dad was/is considering trying one because they look and smell so much like human cookies. Plus the ingredients are very straight forward, they are probably healthier than most the stuff Mom eats... But there in lies the problem. Dad thinks that they are too sweet for a puppy of any age. The second ingredient in almost all of them is sugar. As we all know puppies have a hard time processing sugar, and just like humans can develop diabetes.<br /><br />Conclusion: Your puppy is nearly guaranteed to LOVE the taste. However these should only be used as an occasional treat! If you were to feed your puppies these sugary sweet morsels every day, they would soon plump up. If you puppy is already overweight or does not exercise regularly, you may want to think twice. On the PRO side they are all natural, with no animal bi-products! 3 out of 4 paws, because Dad made me! If we were judging on taste alone they would be a 4."
,,,,,Great Nuts!,"The pistachios are large, fresh, and delicious!  This cute bag makes a perfect hostess gift, and a nice holiday gift for casual friends."
,,,,,Simply delicious flavor!,"I have been using butter ghee for cooking purposes, and found this product on Amazon.  The color is much darker than the grocery store product I had been using, and this product has a richer flavor as well.  I have been buying grassfed butter online as well, and it's clear there is a flavor difference.  I would recommend this product and will continue to buy it for cooking.  Butter is good for bread, ghee is better for cooking, and grass-fed is the best!"
,,,,,EXCELLENT product!,"I'm somewhat of a foodie/food snob and this ghee is excellent as well as containing all the health benefits that ghee should contain.  The cows are grassfed which means more of the fat burning, cancer fighting CLA, they use non-homogenized milk (which is linked to heart disease) and tastes amazing!  I'll be buying more of this!"
,,,,,Good stuff,"I don't know if I have a lot of credibility to review this, since this is the first time I tried ghee. I loved the booklet that comes with the purchase and assures that this is 100% grass-fed ghee, which was my main consideration. It's great for cooking, since it doesn't smoke or burn even on high temperatures."
,,,,,A perfect ghee!,"This organic, grass-fed ghee embodies everything that a modern, healthful food should be. It is tasty, healthful, fresh, and lovingly produced by hand in small batches and according to ages-old methods and principles.<br /><br />I began using this ghee as a part of a transition to eating more healthy, home-cooked foods. More recently, I participated in an Ayurvedic cleanse that required that I take 1/4 cup of plain, warm ghee for several mornings straight! Though this can be an unpleasant experience with ghee of lower quality, the Pure Indian Foods ghee was truly delicious. The flavor is clean and sweet, without any of the harshness or overbearing unctuousness of other ghees (even those labelled as organic). And not a hint of rancidity, to which I'm very sensitive.<br /><br />Only unhomogenized milk is used for this ghee, which is unusual and extremely beneficial. Homogenization alters the structure of milkfats and adversely impacts their bioavailability and handling in the blood. This attention to the quality of raw materials is just one example of this company's dedication to their customers' health.<br /><br />Highly recommended."
,,,,,"Tastes amazing, but a bit expensive","I tried both this brand and the <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0046IIPMW"">Purity Farm Organic Ghee, Clarified Butter, 13-Ounce</a> brand of ghee because as far as I can tell these are the two brands that are from completely grass fed cows, which I was elated to see because of the health and flavor benefits.<br /><br />I'll say that this one takes the slight edge in the taste and aroma department. It has a rich buttery smell, and it seems like they clarify it a little less because it's slightly grainy when you taste it at room temperature.<br /><br />That said, I find myself buying the Purity Farm ghee because this brand is almost twice as expensive and while it has the edge in taste, it is very very slight and not worth the big premium to me. It might be worth it if I was primarily using this at room temperature like on bread, but I usually use regular butter for that, and for cooking you really cannot tell any difference in flavor. There is also a chance I am getting ghee from different times of the year for each brand which does affect the flavor.<br /><br />So in short, amazing high quality ghee, but a bit overshadowed by the much cheaper and also amazing high quality <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0046IIPMW"">Purity Farm Organic Ghee, Clarified Butter, 13-Ounce</a> brand ghee."
,,,,,Sweetest I tried,"I have made my own ghee and purchased various brands of ghee. I have also tried traditional Moroccan ghee ""Smen"" and it can be strong and tangy. I found a review of this brand on an organic/vegan website and it commented on the fresh sweetness of this ghees scent.  That review was right. This is bar none the sweetest scented butter product I have tried. Absolutely delightful. It is more expensive than other brands I have tried.  I am not sure how they process it to get this fresh sweet butter scent but I will use it in my baking when the sweet buttery scent is most noticeable. In sauteing, this delicate scent is covered by meat and or vegatable scents. If you like a ""tangy"" butter scent to cut through with an oregano tinge try ""Smen."" Zamouri spices carries it."
,,,,,If Dallas and Melissa approve - then it MUST be good!,"Since shifting to a Paleo diet, I've been limiting my butter intake to nearly none at all... and to be honest, I miss it from time to time.  When I saw that the Whole9 approved this particular ghee for their Whole30 program, I was ecstatic.  I immediately ordered it and have been thrilled ever since.  The texture, the flavor, the smell - it is all so incredible!  A little bitty bit goes a very long way.  I love cooking with this, eating it on sweet potatoes, mixing it with mashed cauliflower... anywhere I would've used butter, I use this ghee instead.  It is so buttery rich delicious, I highly recommend giving it a try.  It doesn't leave my counter, it adds such great flavor to all the meals that get cooked in it."
,,,,,Very high quality ghee and a great value,"Ghee is more than an indulgence. Ghee can be viewed as an essential vitamin supplement (albeit, one that tastes really good). Ghee is especially necessary in a vegetarian diet in my opinion, but it can be a healthy addition to any diet.<br /><br />Some research shows that ghee can even lower cholesterol.<br /><br />I performed an extensive survey of the top ghee products available. I compared quality and value. Ghee is so important as an addition to the diet that quality should not be sacrificed -- especially because only a very small amount of ghee needs to be used.<br /><br />The ghee comparison table can be found at this blog: [see link in comment]<br /><br />When I started this ghee comparison, I was primarily interested in finding the best value in organic ghee products. However, I learned that several of the products go well beyond just organic standards. It was a very pleasant surprise to find out that such high quality ghee products are available. It is also great to see that my two top picks are both available on Amazon.com. (Grass Fed Organic ghee is one of those top picks.)<br /><br />Because such high quality ghees are available, I focused on understanding which product is the most authentic. Some of the ghees are much more authentic than others. The information in the table (link above) reflects that fact.<br /><br />The focus of my evaluation was not gourmet cooking. It was optimum health. Therefore, I was concerned first with which ghee product is the healthiest.<br /><br />I rank Grass Fed Organic ghee as one of the very best products. Grass Fed Organic ghee is made in accord with the ancient traditions (such as phase of the moon, chanting, etc.). It is a great quality, great tasting product. And the good price makes it a great value. I highly recommend this ghee."
,,,,,Best Ghee available,"This ghee is the best available -- the fat is high quality and the nutrients are powerful, due to the fact that the ghee is made from grass-fed butter during the spring and fall season, when the cows are eating fast-growing green grass. That last part is important -- that means that this ghee has high amounts of K2 compared to other ghees. K2 is the great bone and teeth-building nutrient; it helps the body deposit calcium appropriately. K2 cannot be gotten from green leafy vegetables -- it can only be gotten from animal fats, organ meats, or some kinds of fermented vegetables.<br /><br />Also, apparently this ghee has tested as high in K2 as the very expensive ""butter oil"" that I used to buy.<br /><br />Finally, I've seen an improvement in my kids' teeth since I've been giving them several spoonfuls of ghee each day. We use it like a supplement.<br /><br />Thank you for a high quality product!"
,,,,,So far so good!,"Halfway through my first jar and even though this is only the 2nd brand of ghee I've ever used, I do much prefer it to the last one which had a strange flavor.  Grass-fed is the way to go (the new buzz word for healthy,) and I am willing to pay extra for what I believe to be high quality, I just wished they offered their larger sizes via Amazon as well since that would be a better value."
,,,,,Various kinds of Ghee by Pure Foods,"This company's ghee was highly recommened in a book called Cure Tooth Decay- Heal & Prevent Cavities with Nutrition, The Author, Ramiel Nagel, referred to ghee as one of the nature foods that contains a healthy and natural fat to help us rebuild tooth enamel and keep gums strong and healthy.  I purchased the ghee because I observed a cavity starting..and wanted to fix it without going to the denist & using harmful drugs.  Since I have been following a few simple suggestions in this book, the tooth enamel is rebuilding.  This book also contains other recipes and foods that can help cure and prevent cavities.<br /><br />Getting back to the ghee.  When I visited Pure Foods website, I was very pleased that they had several kinds of ghee including the regular.  For example, they have digestive ghee..which includes spices (helpful for digestion) some of which are also traditionally used to make chai tea. I love this digestive ghee because I can make regular black tea and add the digestive ghee & a little sweetner and it makes a nice chai tea.  It warms me up during the cold and dampness and another added benefit..my stools come out much smoother..and constipation is usually eiliminated completely when I use it consistently. They also have ghees for recipes with chicken, fish and stake.  I've used these other ghees in a few receipes for chicken soup, on salmon and of course, lamb stew..I enjoy it very much.  Yes, they are sold separately from the regular ghee. Oh, they also have very small sample sizes to try before purchasing a large size."
,,,,,Excellent Product from an Excellent Company,I've been using this ghee for years now and can say that it's hands down the best.  The quality is unsurpassed.  I've spoken with the owner of the company (a really nice man) who told me his wife hand packs the jars!  This is truly a family business and one that I feel happy supporting.
,,,,,"Excelent product, wish it comes in big size","We consume lot of ghee, and we always get our ghee from India. I was looking for alternative source and Amazon was the to go place. Tried many brands, kids have a bench mark to compare, none of them met their standards. Tried this, they haven't complained about unusual state or smell, I could not agree more.<br /><br />I only wish, Amazon had bigger size bottles. I can always order directly from company store, but its not the same service as Amazon."
,,,,,I love it!!,I ordered this after finding out that it's not good to cook with olive oil. This was my first time trying ghee and I really like it. When I ran out I bought another brand of ghee from the story but I definitely like this one better. I just wish they had a bigger size.
,,,,,Great product that I wish I could buy locally,"Wonderful flavor full of easily assimilated vitamins and minerals. My son is allergic to dairy except for ghee. He does well with This product because it is both organic and grass fed. I wish I could buy it locally to cut down on packaging, though."
,,,,,Ghee-tastic!,"I really, really like this ghee. Not sure if I love it yet. All I know that my food doesn't burn as fast. For All-Clad frying pan owners, you will love this. Food does not stick and burn onto the frying pan so clean up is much faster. Not sure if there is a taste difference from my previous ghee but the grass-fed component does make it seem better. 4 golden brown french toasts out of 5."
,,,,,Grassfed Organic Ghee,"This is an excellent product.  I wish it were less expensive and came in larger containers, however.  I really like the fact that it is organic and comes from grass-fed cows, which, I believe produces a healthier product!"
,,,,,Can't live without Pure Ghee,"Pure Ghee is a staple in our home. Although it may seem to be a luxury to spend on a condiment it will become one of those ingredients one cannot live without. I have tried many 'health food' store commercial brands and I have tried to make my own, but they pale in comparison. My 14yo son loves to cook eggs in ghee and is quite disappointed when we are running low and usually adds ghee to our Amazon cart. It is essential for those who follow a GAPS diet, Wise Tradition, or other 'healthy fat' lifestyle. If not, no matter. Pure Ghee tastes great on toast, popcorn and ANY Indian/Indonesian recipe and great for traveling/camping/pack-backing because it doesn't require refrigeration. Some spend on expensive coffee, great wines or cheeses, or other gourmet products, but if we had to choose Pure Ghee always comes first in our home."
,,,,,One of the best Ghees made,"Once you've used ghee, butter will not do. I eat a strict Paleo eating regimine <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0982207786"">The Primal Blueprint: Reprogram your genes for effortless weight loss, vibrant health, and boundless energy (Primal Blueprint Series)</a>. With that I have given up dairy (the bane of our healthcare problems) and it was suggested I try Ghee which is virtually lactose free. I brush this on chicken breasts that I bake and sprinkle crushed raw sunflower seeds on top of and bake for an hour and thirty minutes or so. The taste of this ghee is wonderful after baking and the chicken crisps up just right. I have not used it for anything else, but I am sure I will."
,,,,,"Oh, Gee, Ghee!","Great to make popcorn with! I even put some on a sweet potato, I cannot get raw butter, so I use this as a substitute."
,,,,,WOW - PURE WHOLESOME HEALTY BUTTER,"I just took out my freshly baked whole wheat and rye bread out of oven, waited until it cooled down.. cut a slice and put some of that awesome ghee on top .. that is all no jam no nothing.. and this is definetly the taste I have been looking for. Pure natural butter taste, just even a little would do the trick. Wholesome butter taste just like my grandmom used to make back at home. I am not Indian, but still this is the pure and healty butter I remember from my childhood. I am not a typical review writer, but this Ghee deserved an extra effort. My kids love the taste as well.. We will never buy that famous store butter sticks anymore."
,,,,,Outstanding product,"Delightful flavor. Fantastic for stir fried vegies. Only coconut oil cooks this well, but it doesn't add that great flavor. If you eat primal, this is great! You can't find this at the grocery."
,,,,,Great Ghee!,"This is a great product!  It tastes really good, and I love that it's grass-fed.  I will definitely buy this again."
,,,,,Sooo Buttery,"I just got it yesterday and used it as a spread on bread.I never want to be without it,it tastes so buttery.Before I used to use different spreads like butter,cream cheese,mayo but now everything is getting replaced with this grass fed ghee because not only is it a much healthier option but it tastes so much better.<br />I get my organic free range eggs from a local feed store and I bet they will be great fried in ghee.Ohhh and popcorn....<br />I found when I put it in the fridge it got to hard to be manageable so I keep it in the pantry.<br />It is a little expensive but I think a little goes a long way,really don't need to use that much."
,,,,,Nourishing & Delicious,"I was introduced to ghee during my yoga studies in Southern India.  This is the best ghee I have found in the U.S.  It is slightly superior to the Ancient Organics brand, in my opinion, due to richer color and flavor.<br /><br />Thanks to the website, I now pop my own organic popcorn in ghee, as well as using it almost exclusively to cook with, as the heat does not destroy its beneficial properties.<br /><br />As someone who used to be afraid of fat, I am so glad I discovered this ghee.  It's delicious, and I know I am giving my body a healthy ""oil change"" at the same time."
,,,,,Awesome taste...great on almost anything,"This stuff is awesome!  Tastes better than butter with a nice smoky finish.  Great on veggies, as a spread, or to use in cooking. HIghly recommend"
,,,,,Delicious.,"I love that this ghee is organic and grass-fed. I also love that it's rich and delicious, has a great shelf life (not that it lasts long in my house), and is easy to use. I'm off to melt a few spoonfuls onto some popcorn now!"
,,,,,"This Is THE Best Ghee I Have Tried, By Far",This ghee has a richness and depth of flavor that I have found in no other ghee. It is so very yummy that I don't even consider buying cheaper brands. I value that it's from grass fed cows too. Great product!
,,,,,Its Gheetastic!,"I stumbled upon this product while looking for Organic Butter made from non UHT milk. This is by far the BEST ghee I have tasted in a long long time. This ghee reminded me of my childhood days. The 'milk man' would bring the cow to our door, hand express milk. This milk would then be boiled, the cream saved for buttermilk culture- then churned to extract butter and eventually boiled to make ghee! That is the only way I know authentic ghee can be made and that is exactly how this product tastes!<br />I will come back for more.... and more often!"
,,,,,Best Ghee Available,"We started using ghee in place of oils to help our daughter with severe autism.  She appears to be in better health and mood since this change.  We have tried four different varieties of ghee, but this is the best tasting and fits into more recipes because of the mild taste. There is a big price difference, but this brand is worth the extra money."
,,,,,Absolutely delicious,"While this was my first Ghee purchase I was looking to satisfy several criteria for my the type of Ghee I wanted. I wanted it to be organic and from grass fed, or pastured cows, only. This Ghee definitely fits both of those requirements. I had seen this specific brand receive high marks on Amazon as well as a few other sites in addition to the fact that it is produced in the US made it only better. With all of this said, this stuff is absolutely delicious. It has a wonderful nutty-butter like flavor and cooks in an excellent fashion. Although I haven't tried other brands of Ghee I can highly recommend this one...I will certainly be buying more, only wish Amazon carried bigger jars."
,,,,,Awesome!,"This stuff is yummy! I was afraid to try this since I love regular butter so much. I have read about the health benefits of ghee and after ordering this, I am hooked! It's so delicious. I use it to butter my popcorn, saute veggies, on my toast, etc. The best part is that it's grass fed. It's one of the only grass fed ghees I can find. Grass fed is so much better than grain fed. I will continue to buy this...and hoping they will start selling a larger jar so I won't have to keep ordering it twice a month lol!"
,,,,,Great taste,"This is the first ghee I have ever used for cooking and it tastes really pure.  It's the only one on Amazon (as far as I know) thats USDA organic, hence higher price.  I am going to try and different one now to see how this one compares with one that isn't organic."
,,,,,Good ghee,"Love the smell of the ghee, just reminded me of the authentic ghee we used to get back in India. The fact that the ghee is made of grass-fed cows is for me a huge relief. I am so glad I found this treasure. Hope they reduce the price a little so that I can buy more with out guilt."
,,,,,Ghee yummy,"I simply love this ghee!  I feel good knowing that it is giving me nutritous vitamins and CLA while tasting great.  I use it on my pop corn, and also have just used it in other cooking.  The back label also says that it does not have casein and lactose in it, which many people have allergies to, which i try to avoid.  Thanks again, great yummy product!"
,,,,,Aryuvedic Healing Ghee,"Pure Indian Foods Ghee is so great it is applied to joints, heals arthritis and promotes flexibility. Deeply penetrating medicine promotes rejuvenation. Softens, strengthens and builds. This is the best product on the market! It's an essential ingredient in any healing massage! Eat a tablespoon in the morning and at night with some tea and in the meantime mix it with honey, beeswax, some olive oil and herbs like arnica montana for a soothing healing massage session. This Ghee is delicious and the texture is very special! Whichever way this ghee is used brings immediate and permanent benefits! I put it on my eyes and my belly button and kneecaps before going on a jog! When I wash it off I use Dr. Bronners' magic soap for full-effect! I hope you too will discover the benefits of this marvelous medicinal ghee!!!"
,,,,,Great Dairy Replacement,"After years of being unable to eat butter due to dairy sensitivities, we were delighted to discover Pure Indian Foods Organic Ghee. Not only is it packed with nutrition, it gives us the opportunity to enjoy the taste of a much missed staple. Apparently, according to Nourishing Traditions proponents,  it aids in digestion, as well. Although ghee is often compared to theater popcorn butter, we have found the taste of this ghee in particular to be much milder and natural tasting. We will definitely keep this stocked!"
,,,,,excellent product,"This is the first time I buy ghee,the service was really fast.  Would buy this brand again, great taste, texture, won't change brand."
,,,,,Awesome stuff!,"I hardly use butter after trying this stuff.  I use it for cooking and in my morning ""bulletproof"" coffee.  Great flavor, great company for offering an organic grass-fed product, and great service from Amazon.  I would highly recommend this to anyone that's interested."
,,,,,The best Ghee around,"Grass Fed Ghee by Pure Indian Foods is the best Ghee on the market, in my opinion. It tastes better than the rest, and is wonderful to cook with because of it's high heat capability without burning. Tastes like the butter it is made from, without the heavy milk solids."
,,,,,"Ok for cooking, do NOT USE for preventing cavities","I've recently been researching the work of Dr. Price and the X-factor that high vitamin butter, combined with fermented cod liver oil, will cause teeth to re-mineralize and stop tooth decay. If this is why you want to purchase this product, DO NOT. I'm sure it's fine for ghee, but when I switched from the pricey butter oil to this, I found cavities were growing. When I switched back, they stopped growing. Again, this is great for ghee, but don't use as part of preventing/curing tooth decay as Dr. Price's research recommends."
,,,,,Amazingly yummy!,"I ordered this ghee after reading Ramiel Nagel's ""Cure Tooth Decay"". He claims regular use of high vitamin butter oil from grass fed cows feeding on fast growing summer grass not only adds much needed vitamin A to the diet, but also adds something he calls the ""Activator X Factor"" or something like that, which is supposed to cause your body to remineralize your teeth. Nagel recommends a $40 jar of the oil, but this ghee seems just as good. It's organic, high in fat soluble vitamin A, and delicious. It's also from cows fed on that fast growing grass, and it has the warm yellow coloring to prove its vitamin content. It feels good to eat. Unlike regular butter, this stuff reminds my tummy of a kind of nutrition it has wanted for years but didn't know how to ask for. This is the kind of nutrition the healthy rural Swiss praised the lord for. 20 points from me! And it is way less than $40."
,,,,,One of the best Ghee products available...,"I'm the kind of person who eats to live rather than living to eat.  So I give a lot of thought to what I'm eating and why.  I eat a little Ghee daily with Organic Honey, Bee Pollen, Propolis, and Royal Jelly.  I used to use the Purity Farms brand Organic Ghee, but find that this one has a much better flavor and texture.  I think this is due to it being pasture fed and non-homogenized which is probably not true for the other product.  It is a bit more expensive, but the benefits of grass fed cannot be overstated when it comes to Ghee.  The only other Ghee I would recommend is Ancient Organics which is also prepared in the traditional way, but it is a bit more expensive than this brand.  Ghee is also one of the only oils I would recommend using for cooking as it does not change its composition when heated.  A little every day can make a big difference in health over time."
,,,,,Fantastic,"We have been following Primal Blueprint for almost two months, and it was recommended by Mark to get grass-fed butter and ghee.  My husband and I had never had ghee, and are extremely pleased with this product!  Smells and tastes delicious, like move theater butter, and is so good for us too.  Only problem is we ran out  too fast...great product."
,,,,,Best GHEE on the market!,"like my title says, this is the best ghee on the market... it's fantastic! grass fed, organic, what more could you ask for? oh, right... it's delicious!!"
,,,,,Exactly as described,"I originally ordered this product because of a Dr. Oz episode in which a naturalist stated Ghee could be used to cure dry noses. I know it sounds funny, but its true. Before I ordered it I did not realize what Ghee actually was. Once we received are VERY TIMELY shipment of Ghee, I put it in the kitchen cabinet and waited for a first use. My husband had run out of coconut oil, which we do most of our cooking with and so he turned to the Ghee. And we haven't turned back! The flavor is amazing and it is good for you. Particularly, I really like this seller of Ghee because it is natural and grassfed. Good work!"
,,,,,Fantastic butter,"I am so glad i started using this butter to cook with, it just makes anything taste great. the flavor is really buttery. Baking is also fantastic i think it adds moisture and a wonderful texture to foods. A must have in any pantry and it doesn't need refrigeration, so it always ready to use and easy to spread."
,,,,,Great Ghee!,"This is a good quality ghee. I've tried another brand and it had an odd aftertaste, but not this one. This one is good enough to eat with a spoon if you wanted to. mmmmmmmm"
,,,,,Love this ghee!,I love love love this stuff! The company is very good about quality and the cows are grassfed. I use it for  everything. Is it pricy...yes but worth it! I'm currently out of the country and can get quality butter anywhere but thank God I packed this ghee with me. I'm so thankful for quality products like this.
,,,,,"Excellent Quality , Best Source of CLAs out there","This is a high quality Ghee , superior tasting and above all made from grass fed cows' milk and certified organic by the USDA.<br />  We use it over lentils ,  eggs , sauteed veggies , quinoa , rice , you name it and we use it.  Tried it on whole grain toast too...YUMMY !! Being from grass fed cows' milk , it is rich in CLAs and boosts immunity and energy and is known to fight and obesity , especially trimming the waistline. This is my second time buying this and I am a consumer for life. I also introduced it to my friends and they are digging the taste.<br />  I really hope AMAZON continues to sell this product  ( prime delivery really makes it all the more special ).<br /> Please try it for getting healthier and also the incredible taste.  Highly recommended."
,,,,,Delicious!,This ghee is delicious. A little goes a long way because of the intensity of flavor. It imparts wonderful aroma to vegetable dishes and does not burn easily like butter. highly recommended.
,,,,,"Superb Quality, Delicious Ghee","<span class=""tiny""> Length:: 1:04 Mins<br /><br /></span>Additionally:<br />Doesn't state ""100% grass fed"" but I'm not so sure such a products exists? This product is certainly the best alternative!"
,,,,,Wonderful Flavor!,"This specific Ghee product has a wonderful flavor!  It is great added to scrambled eggs and makes for the best popcorn (along with powdered sea salt).  Add a couple of spoonfuls to a saut&eacute; pan and try lightly browning asparagus tips!  Very convenient to use... Just keep the jar handy... does not have to be refrigerated.  I bought two jars, for free shipping!"
,,,,,Grassfed Organic Ghee,This is an excellent product. The taste is delicious and it is great for sauteing since it has a high smoke point. I also love that it is grass-fed! I will definitely recommend this to my health-conscious friends.
,,,,,Pure Indian Foods Grass Fed Ghee,"<span class=""tiny""> Length:: 0:41 Mins<br /><br /></span>Brief review of Pure Indian Foods Ghee.  Great lactose free alternative to butter."
,,,,,Best Ghee on the planet,"<span class=""tiny""> Length:: 0:52 Mins<br /><br /></span>Here's my video review of Pure Indian Foods ghee. It's delicious, and I bet you'll love it! Making ghee can be tough, so having premade ghee is key in a healthy lifestyle."
,,,,,Great Ghee,"I recieved this Ghee right away and came safely packaged. I love that it is grass-fed and organic, very important to my family. We use this with stir fry and saut&eacute;ing and can't wait to try on our popcorn! Delicious Ghee!"
,,,,,Great Product,I ordered this ghee for my family while we work at improving our dental health and overall health.  It's very tasty and the kids love it on toast.  It also came REALLY fast which was nice.  I will be ordering more.
,,,,,"Very Expensive, There are cheaper and Better Ghee than This one","Very expensive and not worth the price. Try PurityFarm Organic Ghee, it's much cheaper and taste much better than this Ghee. Don't waste your money."
,,,,,Not special,"Cannot detect any difference from other ghees.  Also, their supposed 'free' sample is not really. They ship a tiny jar in a box through the mail and it costs about $2.00 in postage, something for the box and it costs you $4.99.<br /><br />Very disappointed.  They should reconsider doing that because it taints all of their offerings."
,,,,,Moonstruck Chocolates,The first time I tried Moonstruck Chocolates I was hooked. These are the very best chocolate truffles !  I ordered the truffle box and it arrived quickly . Everyone should try a Moonstruck chocolate. It is really a treat !
,,,,,WOW!!!! Can't be beat,"Nothing is better then a gluten free pretzel that taste like a pretzel! This is one of the few that are out there that actually taste like a pretzel, and if you are like me that matters."
,,,,,good stuff!!,The popcorn was great!! Everyone commented on how good it was and how it really tasted like movie theatre popcorn. I received it quickly and intact.
,,,,,Awesome Popcorn,Orville's is the best microwave popcorn you can buy...in my opinion.  The price is outstanding from Amazon and we have compared it all around at various stores.  Almost all the kernels pop and we love the movietheatre butter flavor!<br />Cannot go wrong with this purchase.
,,,,,GREAT POPCORN!,"This is delicious popcorn.  It's buttery without being too butter heavy.  Very little ""old maids""  :-).  Very light and easy to eat."
,,,,,Orville Redenbacher's MTB,"I've tried several different brands of microwave popcorn and I think this is the best, by far.  Great flavor, very few seeds after popping and not greasy."
,,,,,Hit or Miss,"Overall, the bags of popcorn were just like those that you'd get in a regular package of 8 or 12 bags.  However, several bags did not pop correctly (or at all) and had to be thrown out.  Also, many other bags would have a burnt hole after popping.  I realize that some of this variability could be due to microwave wattage, but it was only bags from this large box of Orville Redenbacher's that would do this.  I think when you order such a large box, your chances of getting ""dud"" bags increase...just something to keep in mind!  Is it worth it to buy in bulk when more of the bags will be duds?"
,,,,,Popcorn,"I love Orville Redenbacher and so I ordered a case. Unfortunately, It looks old and the bags are weeping butter. The popcorn tastes OK when it does fully pop, if you can get pass that...what am I saying? Buy the 3 pack and try it out first."
,,,,,Most delicious oatmeal!,"This is by far the best oatmeal I have EVER put in my mouth. Lots of texture and most importantly delicious. My fav is usually just McCains Irish Oats, this far exceeds that. You wont be disappointed with this if you love oatmeal!"
,,,,,Tasty for Salmon,Use as a rub or mix in with canned salmon and mayo for a fast tasty dip.  Great stuff.
,,,,,All 3 of my cats love this brand/seafood flavor,"All 3 of my cats including the skittish/picky kitten adore these treats! My high-anxiety kitten hides all of the time and won't eat these same treats in the Milk flavor, but she always comes out and eats these Seafood treats! Couldn't be happier!"
,,,,,Kitties' Treat,All our kitties love these treats. They come running at treat time. It's their favorite treat. Seafood is a favorite flavor.
,,,,,Happy Cats with Temptations,"My cats just love the Seafood Medley Temptations.  They can't get enough of them.  We go through 10 large packs in about 2-3 weeks.  We have only 2 cats, a 3 year old male and a 17 year old female. They will eat only the Seafood flavor.  The male cat will eat only dry food and Temptation Seafood Medley and whatever he can catch outside.  The female loves can food with gravy, dry food and Temptations Seafood Medley. She doesn't hunt anymore but she will eat some of whatever the male catches.  I will definitely be ordering more. Thank you for such a good product and very good service. I recommend them to my friends with cats."
,,,,,All Around Great -,"Good price, free delivery, automatic replenishment, cats love it (it's the only reason they come in) - a fine deal! (I'm a little worried, though that they'll get tire of this flavor - maybe another option with mixed flavors?)"
,,,,,came expired,The product came at the end of August with expiration date of 01/07. As a result I could not eat it. Just waist of money
,,,,,pure decadence,"This is pure decadence sophisticated delight - i had no problems with the delivery either. One have to be into marzipan ,if you dont know  or tasted marzipan before , try it first on inexpensive kind . This is the ultimate for me ."
,,,,,Peanut Oil,What a great deal. I live in an area where you can almost NEVER get what you want in the size you want...when you want. So when there is a good deal..I get it. Then I discovered Amazon grocery. OMG!! I love it! CASES 'o food at amazing prices!! Anyway...this peanut oil is wonderful. Great size bottle for every day use. Excellent!
,,,,,Good buy for the money!,Add 1/4 cup to 2 cups of raw peanuts in a food processor and make homemade peanut butter. Grind till smooth.  (Add 1/4 cup sugar and a tsp of salt if you prefer)
,,,,,Doesn't taste bad... but does not impress,"Bought this at Ralphs, 1 for $4.49 to try and was unimpressed. The high protein is great, but you can find that in other grocery store products. The high fiber is great for diets, and you can't find this high in any other pasta, but it tastes and is the texture like macaroni for kids. It definitely tastes and feels better than some ""healthy"" pastas available, but I'm just not sold on this. If you want low net carbs and that's your main goal, definitely use this and add in meats, veggies, and cheese to your dish for a good meal."
,,,,,A great option for low carb diets,I can just look at a carb and I gain weight.  This product allows me to eat pasta and not get all the high impact carbs on my blood sugar.  18 grams of fiber is outstanding! Unlike the other reviewer I think it tastes really good.  The texture is a little more chewy and thick but again this is something I like.  I dont miss white pasta at all when I eat this.
,,,,,Yummy - better than the best American chocolate,"Caramilk bars are soooo good.  One of the pleasures of visiting Canada is getting yourself these Caramilk bars.  Along with Aero and Kit-kat, they are top of the line!<br /><br />If you happen to have read the article from the Food/Dining section of the New York Times, dated July 11, 2007, you will agree that British chocolates (and their commonwealth brethren) are da best!"
,,,,,Best Chocolate EVER!!!,"OK I have to admit I was very skeptical on how good this chocolate was.  My wife had served a mission in Canada and she said this was the best chocolate so I had to try it.  Well, she was right again.  Not only was the chocolate good but the deliver was great also.  We received ours before they said they would get it to us.  Great service!  You have to just try these!"
,,,,,This does NOT cause cancer -- do your own research,"Both previous reviewers rated this very low b/c they claim these drag&eacute;es cause cancer... not true. They may be referring to the SILVER or GOLD drag&eacute;es that are not longer available in CA b/c the FDA ruled that b/c there is trace amount of metal, they must state it's for decoration only, though people have been eating these for centuries... you get more metal in tap water and cooking in pans than from the few cookies you eat decorated with these during occassional celebrations. (BTW, the CA law can be traced to one lawyer who made this his sole platform... google it.)<br />These PEARL drag&eacute;es are perfectly safe and do not fall under the same FDA restrictions and are still available in most baking supply shops (who've pulled the metallic ones off their shelves just avoid legal trouble.) While those who are looking for this product will probably already know this, those who are exploring new ideas for decorating will benefit from learning the truth. (The only reason I don't rate this higher is b/c of shipping rates.) Happy Baking!"
,,,,,Beautiful and good tasting,"Very beautiful and added a wonderful appearance to some of our Christmas Cookies.  Tasted good as well, with no bitter or chemical flavor.  A good alternative to all the frosting that is popular these days on cookies."
,,,,,Arrived Open/Damaged and Was Not Allowed to Return/Exchange,"I received this item and there was a tear in the packaging which had caused the dragees to spill all over the inside of the box they arrived in. This isn't very surprising due to the type of plastic it's packaged in -the sort which immediately rips open at the slightest puncture- but as such it should have been packaged for shipping more carefully. Perhaps wrapped it in small bubble wrap and taping it securely as I've seen done with other less fragile items I've ordered. I was especially annoyed however that there is NO way of returning it! That's just outrageous. Very very dissatisfied. I have now tried ordering similar pearl dagrees from Wilton <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B002N7ST6U"">Wilton Sugar Pearls, White, 5 Oz</a> which incidentally, are less than half the price.<br /><br />I should say, that generally my experience with Amazon and returns has been excellent. The few dragees left in the package were beautiful, uniform in shape and tasty. I view this as an isolated incident due to the particular characteristics of this product/its packaging. However it could have been handled better."
,,,,,Great deal. Good quality.,I can't find dragees cheaper anywhere else. These are the exactly the same you would buy at a craft store for allot more.
,,,,,Can cause Cancer !!! Why this  can not be ship to California !,"Why in the world would Amazon want to sell an item and say can be ingested,  when it clearly has ingredients that can cause cancer. Wish every state would wake up like California and ban all these cancer causing things."
,,,,,causes cancer,There is a warning for this package that it has things in it that cause cancel!!!  Why would you put cancer in your food?
,,,,,My cats LOVE this very healthy food!,"When Pet Promise, a safe and healthy pet food, went out of business, I was desperately looking for another healthy food that had no by-products, rendered fats, meat meals, or outsourced ingredients. (You might want to check out what these types of ingredients can include - if your stomach can take it - but avoid commercial manufacturers' ""spins"" on this). Good books to get in this regard are ""Foods Pets Die For"" and ""Protect Your Pet"":<br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0939165562"">Food Pets Die For: Shocking Facts About Pet Food</a><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0939165422"">Protect Your Pet: More Shocking Facts</a><br /><br />My cats were completely unaffected by the melamine contamination tragedy of 2007 - which killed many pets, especially cats - because their Pet Promise food was one of the few brands in America that didn't use outsourced ingredients (and was never on the recall list - unlike some of the very expensive ""premium brands""). I felt so lucky that I had already switched to Pet Promise, a petfood company that bought ingredients only from North American farmers using sustainable agriculture and free-range livestock.<br /><br />I finally discovered Halo's products, and was encouraged by the fact that Ellen DeGeneres, a devout animal lover herself, not only endorses it but also has become part-owner of the company. Their website also included a specific message written to us former Pet Promise users. So I went to my health-food store and bought some.<br /><br />I was delighted to see that it had no by-products, no rendered meats, no meat meals, and that the label stated that all its ingredients are ""Made in the USA"", except the pea protein from Canada. Furthermore, the salmon in Halo is wild Alaskan, not farmed salmon (aka, pharmed salmon, full of antibiotics, etc.). Moreover, it is low in carbohydrates and even includes probiotics in the mix! Making it even more promising than Pet Promise!<br /><br />But the ultimate test was whether my cats would eat it or not. Unlike my dachshunds, who would eat just about anything that hit the floor (they're really low to the ground, you know), cats are notorious for their persnickety eating habits. BUT THEY LOVE IT!!! Can't get enough! So I have to dole it out so they don't overeat! And after five months, their health and energy seem to be great.<br /><br />Oh, and hi, Ellen - and many thanks!"
,,,,,Cats don't seem to go wild for it,"After finding out what horrors I'd been perpetrating on my kitties with their expensive ""premium"" pet food, I set out to find something that wasn't full of by-products and unnecessary corn ingredients. Halo Spot's Spew definitely fit that bill and their ingredients are probably the best you will find in a cat food. My cats, however, weren't as impressed as I was and turned their noses up at their new food. They did eat it, but clearly weren't enthused.<br />Although I like the human grade ingredients used in Halo foods, I do wish they used more meat sources. There are only a couple protein sources in the food and as a result the protein content of Spot's Stew, around 30%, is also a little lower than what I'd like.<br />Overall, however, this is definitely a great food to feed your pets, though if you have a cat that's a finicky eater or that needs a high protein food, Halo Spot's Stew may not be for you."
,,,,,"Fantastic for kitty's energy and coat, the key is introduction of new food.","I switched my cat to Halo's Salmon indoor formula and have noticed a marked difference in her coat and reduced smell from the litter box.<br /><br />Cats are snobs when it comes to food.  Switching them to a new food takes at least a week, more if you have a picky eater like me.  Start small and work more in each day. If you moved from a diet of Raman Noodles to a high protein, high fiber diet instantly you wouldn't want to eat it either.  :)  You get what you pay for when you buy food for yourself or your pet."
,,,,,Will buy again,Great dry cat food. Will definitely buy it again for my cat. He loved it and never got tired of it.
,,,,,Great cat food,My cats love this cat food. I am very pleased with all the varities. It is very healthy much more than the artificially colored store brands that made one of my cats throw up when he ate it. Their coats have become very shiney. Very impressice cat food. Highly recommend
,,,,,Causes vomiting,"I like the idea of getting grains out of cat food, but using peas instead doesn't seem to be the answer.  Carnivores (at least my cat) doesn't tolerate peas.  Vomiting began in about 2-3 weeks and is now instantaneous.  Eat some cat food--go right to throwing up. Both chicken and salmon.  So for me it was a waste of money and very disappointing."
,,,,,Best All Natural Dry Cat Food,"My cats love this food. I have been buying the 3 pound bag, but with 3 cats, I will be switching to the larger bag. I am glad that Halo is available on Amazon, which makes it very convenient to order, but I also wish that more stores would start to carry this brand as well. I am always looking for the best for my babies and as far as I can tell, this is it."
,,,,,"My cat likes it, and so I am happy.","I am not sure if my cat loves Halo, but whenever I try to change brands, my cat looks happier going back to Halo. Like other reviewers, the poop seems to be least smelly. Also, one noticeable difference when I feed Halo is that my cat seems to eat in a controlled manner- eats throughout the day. I guess that is a good thing? When I feed other brands, my cat eats it uncontrollably all at once."
,,,,,"My Kitty thought ""no so good""","Unfortunately my dear sweet cat did not think this food was so dear or sweet. She only ate it when she knew there would be nothing else and she NEVER finished what I gave her. She normally eats EVERY SINGLE BITE of her food but constantly turned her nose up at this. She really enjoys Bench & Field's Holistic Natural Feline Formula (from Trader Joe's) and also Purina's Naturals Cat Chow. Sorry, Halo, I REALLY wanted her to like this!"
,,,,,Disappointed,"I bought a couple of flavors from Halo's, both were not a hit with my cats unfortunately. My cats would not touch it."
,,,,,This is the one !,"My little beasts love this stuff. I have tried this, turkey, and salmon. All get 2 paws up. LOVE the packaging, and if smell is any indication, this must be good and healthy for my cats. Some cat food really smells like.. cat food.  This doesn't. The little girl kitty loves the smaller morsels, so she is eating more. I had been using Iams and although it's great also, she had a hard time chewing the bigger pieces.  Thanks Amazon for carrying this brand.  It may be a bit more expensive, but I notice I am not filling the litter bowl as much. My little girl kitty is putting on some much needed weight, but I am not buying cat food as often with this brand."
,,,,,Great Gum!,"I used to chew this gum all of the time! My G-ma had over 250 packets of it in her basement! It tastes so good! When I was young, I'd eat 1 little Chicklet at a time! The flavor doesn't last that long, but it tastes amazing when it does!"
,,,,,Classic candy/gum Very nostalgic,"Loved them. Product shipped super fast really a throw back treat, the flavor does not last long but they are addicting!"
,,,,,yummy,the grand children love them.  It's a great way to keep them entertained and behaved cuz they know they will get a treat from grandma.
,,,,,Addicting gum!,This tiny Chiclets are very addicting. Since I use the subscribe and save I never seem to run out. I love grabbing a pack and eating the whole thing at once. Yummy.
,,,,,Chiclets memory,My daughter's daughter is turning 6 and wanted a bubble gum theme.  Of course MY daughter remembered growing up as well as I with the tiny size Chiclets.  We looked everywhere and found them on Amazon!!  WE were thrilled and purchased several packs to introduce it to the 6 year old's and bring back wonderful memories of Chiclets gum. Still the same wonderful product that is always was.
,,,,,WIFE WENT LUNAR!,"Eat your heart out , Godiva<br /><br />Be envious , Ghiardelli,<br /><br />An old childhood fave of the better 1/2,<br /><br />MADE HER MORE KOO-KEE<br /><br />THAN ,....KO-KO POOFS<br /><br />She was delighted....if your sweet-tee is a gum conisseur',<br /><br />Grab her a COUNTER  BOX<br /><br />The box works too,<br /><br />Fires up the. "" inner kid in a candy store""<br /><br />In her!<br /><br />(remind her to share!)<br /><br />A pinch buys new friends<br /><br />All day long!<br /><br />(Use like soft, or street money)<br /><br />Worx 4 me!"
,,,,,chiclets,"It taste okay, but they are  not soft and the taste doesn't stay very long. I wouldn't buy them again."
,,,,,Willibee's King Syrup,"I have use this product for years;came across the product on the East Coast, was hard to find on the West Coast, but with the internet the world has become smaller.  Thanks to Amazon I can continue to enjoy the product. This product is a thicker syrup than any other on the market.  I have yet to find another equal to it."
,,,,,Why listen to people about not using fructose corn syrup,"I have used this product for the last 55 plus years, it has been used by my family<br />for generations. I have recently tried other products that have taken this out of their<br />product and the taste is not the same. I will not give up the satisfaction of enjoying<br />the best flavor for some health nut's opinion that it isn't good for you. Also , the<br />reason I buy this online, when I came from the east coast I found that I couldn't get<br />this product in the stores here on the west coast.  It was really a blessing to realize<br />that I didn't have to give it up or have family send it to me."
,,,,,GREAT syrup!,I was raised in the East having this syrup on pancakes and just plain bread. Still the beat around! I only wish I could get it in AZ. The shipping is more than the syrup!
,,,,,King Syrup Rules!,"I grew up on King Golden Syrup back in Pennsylvania, and have missed it greatly since moving west in 1978. Until recently, I had depended on the generosity<br />of family members to ship me the occasional bottle, which we would then use so sparingly that sometimes I would forget that I had it on the shelf! So nice<br />to find an entire six-pack for such an affordable price.  Tiny bit of disappointment when it showed up in plastic dispensers, as opposed to the classic glass bottle pictured in the add.  Pleased to announce that the quality was still very, very high!"
,,,,,Maple Syrup,"I LOVE King Syrup!! As a child I would visit my grandmother in PA and we would have it for breakfast on buttered toast. I always looked forward to my visit because the Midwest didn't have it. It one of those childhood memories that gives you the warm and fuzzies. I would be enjoying breakfast while listening to my grandmother tell a story. When my family would pack up to return to MO, my folks would buy a couple cases of King Syrup to hold us over to the next visit. To this day, I am ""54"", everytime I eat it, I think of her and the wonderful memories, a time when things were simpler but good. ;-)"
,,,,,Love King Syrup!!!,"My mother-in-law always makes Pennsylvania Dutch Fasnachts (doughnuts) every year during Lent.  King Syrup is the perfect, and required, accompaniment! I'm California born and raised, but love King Syrup -- and Fasnachts!"
,,,,,a must have,"I grew up eating King syrup in Delaware and as I moved several times I would always have family and friends bring me a bottle while visiting.  Recently, this syrup is no longer available in Delaware so I was glad to find it on Amazon.com.  Although it arrived in plastic bottles instead of the traditional glass bottles, the taste (quality) remains the same.  I ordered a six pack and only have 2 as family and friends grabbed bottles as I opened the package."
,,,,,Just as I remember it,I used to have this syrup at my grandmothers house all the time.  The product is the same as I always remember it.  It is a very thick syrup.  The only complaint I have is that the bottles I used to use it out of were glass and these bottles are plastic.  No big deal though it doesn't change the syrup.
,,,,,King Syrup,I was raised up with King Syrup.  I couldn't find it until last year. My Brother lives inCalifornia and he couldn't find it eaither so I mailed him some for xmas this past Christmas. He loves it as well as my other 4 siblings.  Thank You so very much for abilling me to get some more.
,,,,,Best there is,"I grew up using King Syrup on biscuits, pancakes, in pecan pie, in pumpkin pie.  It is the best.  I used to have my brother send me 16 oz bottles, but most stores only carry it in 32 oz. bottles.  One 16 oz is just right for two pies.<br /><br />My complaint is not with the syrup.  It is in the way it was shipped.  I ordered two boxes of 6 each.  I wanted one for a gift.  However, you sent the 12 bottles in one container.  The UPS man left it on my porch and I couldn't lift it to get it in the house.  Bad call on your part."
,,,,,BEST SYRUP EVER...............................................,"OH MY THIS SYRUP IS DEVINE, DELICIOUS, VERY THICK, SILKY, GOOEY SMELLS SO GOOD<br />I AM IN LOVE. MY MOM KEPT THIS IN THE CABINET I GREW UP ON THIS STUFF AND TODAY I STILL LOVE IT. I HAVE TO BE CAREFUL WITH MY WEIGHT HOWEVER THERE IS NO SYRUP IN MY OPINION THAT COMPARES TO KING SYRUP. ANYTHING YOU POUR IT ON IT JUST SOAKS IN LIKE A SPONGE. I EAT IT ON HOT BUTTERED WAFFLES, PANCAKES I USE IT TO MAKE MY THANKSGIVING MARSMALLOW CANDIED SWEET POTATOES AND MY FAMILY AND FRIENDS LOVE IT AND ALWAYS ASKS FOR MORE CANDIED SWEETS. MY DAD BEFORE HE PASSED USED TO EAT IT ON BREAD, BISCUITS HE HAD A SLIGHT SWEET TOOTH AND THIS FIXED HIS CRAVING EVERYTIME.<br />YOU MUST TRY THIS SYRUP."
,,,,,King Syrup,"I grew up on King Syrup in Virginia. Its still the best and still sold in stores in PA. and VA. I have mine and it was great on biscuits, been a along time since I had Syrup and biscuits with Good ol' King Syrup. When I was a kid I called it Lion Syrup,, lol"
,,,,,King's syrup,For those of us on the West Coast Carl's Jr serves King Syrup in their syrup packets for French Toast.
,,,,,The best for cooking and eating,"I also grew up on the east coast (USA), where this was, and may still be, readily available. We ate it on pancakes, ice cream, pumpkin pie..... Mom also used it in baking. None other matches the thick richness of this syrup, or the taste! Whenever I've gone back east, I've stocked up!"
,,,,,"great price, lots of cookies","I got this at a GREAT PRICE. I paid $8.67 ($10.20 without Subscribe and save) for 3 boxes that contain 4 separate 24oz bags. So you see, is a whole bunch of cookies. I'm abroad but I hear that my stepson's reaction was WOW, they'll all be gone tomorrow (teenager - resembles a bottomless pit) but it was a very good price. Cookies are fresh and packaging as appropriate. Will buy again.<br />Btw, i just saw that the price on this was $29.95(My favorite things LLC), refresh a couple of times till you see $10.20, (fulfilled by amazon.com)"
,,,,,Not like in the store,"I had a good experience with other Amazon grocery products and these were a good deal, so I bought a three pack. They weren't horrible but they don't taste the same as the ones you buy in the store. They taste like cheap generic chocolate chip cookies. Which is not necessarily bad, but not what I expected for the price and Chips Ahoy brand.<br /><br />They are cheaper tasting, a little stale and much less chocolate chips. I haven't had store-bought Chips Ahoy for a few months so maybe they changed the formula for all these cookies, but if not, then these seem to be cheap knock-offs made with cheaper ingredients."
,,,,,There's something wrong here,"My kids loves Chips Ahoy! and I will have them once in a while as well.  But the kids refuse to eat them from this Family Size package.  Once I tasted them, I knew why.  They have an awful medicinal taste.  Really bad.  I don't what the problem is, but if you like Chips Ahoy, you will not like these.  Go elsewhere."
,,,,,Does not taste like bubble tea from restaurants.,"First of all, the tea is gross. It tastes nothing like bubble milk tea. secondly, the seller must know this product is less than expected because they sell it in incriments of two (2.2lb) bags. NOW IM STUCK WITH TWO BAGS (4.4LBS) of this junk. I want my 30 bucks back."
,,,,,"Best Tea on Earth (No, I don't own company stock!)","Everyone in my house is addicted to this tea. We drink it iced. Make one or two pitchers of it a day. It's not sweetened, but has a subtle, natural sweetness to it. Feels refreshing and clean. It was also one of the few things I tolerated well when I was pregnant and routinely nauseated. I've heard this from other mothers too. Love it."
,,,,,A delicious 'tonic-like' tea,"I was introduced to this tea at a local restaurant and went absolutely crazy about it. Its unique flavor and healthifying blend of green and black teas and yerba mate, along with a light touch of ginger, is a wonderful thirst quencher.  As a tonic for health and energy, I now find myself drinking it daily instead of my usual afternoon coffee. It perks up the body and brain without the jittery effects of caffeine. I find I get a delightful pick-me-up later in the day--when I need it--without the negative affects of keeping me up at night.  While a tad expensive, I will continue to buy SPORtea and enjoy its delicious brew.  It is now a part of my every day routine."
,,,,,Very different than the original,But VERY delicious just the same. If you're looking for a wee bit of a different flavor in the old favorite Oreo -- this is just what you're looking for! LOVE the size of the mini's too.
,,,,,The best dog treat,"Little BITZ chicken treats are the best treats I've found for my little dog. Not only are they good for him but he LOVES them. I'm so disappointed that the stores where I live stopped carrying them and thrilled to death that I can order them here. My chihuahua is very fussy because he's very spoiled. These treats are the only ones he'll eat, plus they're healthy and good for his teeth. Doesn't matter if they're round or bone-shaped. Great to use for training."
,,,,,Plants need to be tagged .,"The only problem I had with these plants were that I ordered six (6), 3 different colour flowers and  they weren't tagged. now i have to wait till they start flowering to see whats what. Having said that the plants arrived in  Excellent condition  and ahead of schedule,with all their leaves intact and still green . I have ordered from this supplier again, and will do so in the future."
,,,,,Desert Rose,Very good and quick service. My plant arrived just in two days in very good shape and is doing well.
,,,,,Desert Rose,We haven't planted it yet but it is still hanging in there.  We do water it in the little pot every so often.  We really need to get it in the ground soon.  It is very attractive but has just one stem and don't know how to turn it into Bonsai look but it has glossy attractive leaves and haven't had a bloom yet.  maybe if I were to get it into the ground it would help.
,,,,,"Very good plant,","When i got it, was in amazing condition, only problem is it died due to the fact bugs { nats & flies } Love this for some odd reason. But all n all, love the plant! Will buy from seller again."
,,,,,There was a problem with the order...,"While 12 packages were to be sent out in 1 order ONLY 1 pack was sent out in 1 order BUT after contacting you and explaining the problem your company fixed it right away - AFTER ALL we all make mistakes, thanks for your handling the situation so quickly."
,,,,,Walnuts are good but the price... not so much.,"Is this price correct?  $46.34 works out at over $7 a lb!  I am sorry, but for this price I would not buy from this supplier.  This is just a ridiculous price.  Walnuts can be purchased ANYWHERE for less than $5. per lb."
,,,,,Walnuts -- good for you.,"After reading so many healthy things about walnuts, we try to eat some everyday.  Buying them from Amazon with our prime shipping is so much cheaper than buying them from our local grocery store.  Nuts keep nicely in the freezer.  Toasting them in a 350 degree oven for 10-12 minutes makes them taste gourmet-ish."
,,,,,Walnuts are delicious and good for you,"I love these chopped walnuts.  I put them in cereal, chicken salad and sweet potato casserole, to name a few.  They are good for you, also."
,,,,,"these walnuts are fresh and are chopped to the perfect size for  topping ice cream and yogurt, etc.","I enjoyed these chopped walnuts very much. They are fresh and crunchy and are perfect for use in trail mix or as a topping for ice cream, yogurt, etc.<br /><br />I like the small eight oz. bag.  It's a very convenient size that doesn't leave me wondering how to keep a whole pound of nuts fresh if I have to open the bag just to use a few walnuts on my granola in the morning.<br /><br />However, for some uses (i.e. making chunky chocolate chip cookies), I have found that the shelled walnuts work much better for me than these chopped walnuts do.  The small pieces (chopped walnuts are really just walnut crumbs) seem to blend more into the background of baked goods than the big shelled walnut chunks do.<br /><br />For that reason, I prefer the Diamond shelled walnuts to their chopped walnuts.  However, both products are very good."
,,,,,Love These Nuts!,"These chopped walnuts are just perfect for baking.  They save a lot of prep time.  My local super market is always out of stock, and they cost more there than they do from this seller.  They were delivered in only two days!  Very satisfied!"
,,,,,"Diamnond Walnuts, Chopped, 8 Ounce Bags (Pack of 12)",I eat a handful of these walnuts daily for Omega 3 fatty acids with a diet coke as a great snack.  I eat 1 bag per week.  They taste great & they always have tasted fresh.  I empty 1 bag of walnuts in a plastic storeage container & either keep it in the fridge or in a kitchen cabinet.  I am about to order subscribe & save to save 6.00 on my next order.  I am sure that they would be great for baking as they are nicely chopped.
,,,,,Best of the florentines,"This one seems to be flavored more to a cat's liking than the rest of the Florentine varieties.  They're expensive, so buy one of each to see what floats with your cat but here, one will eat this and the other one won't.  It is gobbled up quite quickly too, I might add, by one of them so there you go!  Anyway, the greens addition is great for cats, they seem to like it in their other varieties, and they're high on the nutrition scale. So, if you're looking for higher protein and better nutrition all around, be sure to give these a go.  In our house, the pates have fared the best over the shreds and particularly, these florentines.  The egg soufles seem to be the favorites here - they ""hoover"" them down so fast they barely come up for air!  Recommend!"
,,,,,Cats love it,"But Fuzzy prefers the salmon primavera to the yellowfin tuna. However, Toto (aka Totolicious) loves it. I have to keep writing until I reach 20"
,,,,,My cats love this,This is one of the few products my spoiled brats really appreciate. I look for bargains and sometimes I find cheaper elsewhere. This product is from petfooddirect.com and often they offer coupons through email. My kitties only like the elegant medleys and basically refuse all else and they only like a few of these too. I am stuck spending all my dough to feed the felines. Oh well ...
,,,,,Inflation,Product is good; my cats like it.  But the price just keeps climbing.  I will have to train my cats to eat cheaper cat food.
,,,,,Cat Food,This is a good product.  The price at Amazon is excellent and I really like it just coming to my door.  Subscribe and save is an excellent way to shop
,,,,,Concerned about Mercury content,"Tuna, as is well documented, absorb and store Mercury in fat.  Anything that eats that fat consumes Mercury. I wouldn't feed tuna to a child, and I'd recommend any adult to read the literature regarding mercury content in seafood. How can it be safely fed to a cat? Regarding this brand of cat food, it's excellent as long as you feed chicken or turkey."
,,,,,Cheaper than the store with coupons,I should bite the bullet and only order this more expensive Fancy Feast for my 3 cats. They all love it; it's the sauce. There isn't any waste. Setting up autoship assures me that I am getting the best possible price around.
,,,,,Yummy for kitty's tummy!,"This is one of the few cat foods my fussy cat will eat.  He loves the gravy especially.  Wish they would sell that on it's own!  And amazon's subscribe and save is the best price I can find, and so convenient too!"
,,,,,Good for my cat.,The garden greens added to this product was the reason I bought it because my cat was trying to eat any twigs she found in my yard in addition to the twigs in trees she climbs.  My cat was a stray cat who obviously had not been getting a balanced diet.  I believe the Fancy Feast florentine style is changing her eating habits because she chews fewer twigs and has begun nibbling on any available green plants.
,,,,,My cats love it,"As much as one can tell with cats, mine seem to prefer this as their favorite."
,,,,,great flavor - not a killer,"works well as a rub on chicken<br /><br />also adds plenty of flavor when mixed in to meatloaf<br /><br />has some smoke, not too much fire"
,,,,,Ancho Chile Pepper,"This is hard to find on grocery shelves.  Thank goodness McCormick is producing it now.  I look forward to using it in several recipes.<br /><br />I bought it for Chocolate Chile Mole Brownies -- which were received with skepticism until tasted.  Then there were rave reviews.  I've downloaded other dessert recipes using ground ancho chile pepper, but in the meantime, we've learned it really does a good job of flavoring chili without making it unbearably hot.  Good product."
,,,,,Great flavor,I use this product whan I make Honey Jalapeno ribs. Gives a nice mild smoke flavor. Great price on this also.
,,,,,"good quality, fair price",If you love chiles then ancho powder is a must have for any blends you may create. I recommend with chipotle powder. Try different peppers in different amounts for amazing results.
,,,,,Great Flavor! Hard To Find In Stores!,"I've seen a lot of popular chefs use this in recipes but could never find it in the stores. This goes great in marinades, rubs, wings, spreads, etc. A great addition to any spice/seasoning collection!"
,,,,,As jumbo plastic jars of Ancho go...,"The problem with Ancho chili is its scarcity in commercial markets.  We don't have ready recourse to a decent Mexican mercado, a sadness, so I turned to Amazon.  There is simply something wonderful combining Ancho and maple syrup for a splendid porc chop sauce, for example. I'm grateful.  So are the happy palates around here."
,,,,,K-Cup Holder,Exactly as advertised. Plenty of space to set the Keurig brewer on top and still fit under a counter top (depending on counter top height). Cups fir in nicely and the drawer is easy to access and see what K-Cups you may want.
,,,,,Attractive but drawer sticks,"It is a nice looking storage option and saves space, but I expected the drawer to slide out without so much difficulty. It is very jerky and tough to pull out and and push in. I thought maybe I did something wrong but it is pretty simple. I applied some WD 40 to the slide (with much wiping to get the excess off) and that did not help.<br />Has anyone else had this trouble, and were you able to remedy it?"
,,,,,Over priced on Amazon,Cost was $48 at time of review.  Only $25 at other sites .... buy elsewhere!  Sometimes prime is worth paying an extra dollar or two. I will be comparison shopping a little more now.
,,,,,Cheaper in the store,"This sells for $29.99 at Bed, Bath and Beyond. Add your 20% off coupon and you're good to go ...<br /><br />I also had cabinet issues and returned it to BB&B."
,,,,,Poor Quality,"When I received this item, I was very disappointed with it. It is rather cheap looking and I wouldn't want this on my counter for all to see. The left side of the tray was lopsided and looked strange when you pulled it out. Needless to say I boxed it back up and sent it back for a full refund. Definitely not worth $25.00, but after seeing it I would have been equally disappointed had I paid only $10.00."
,,,,,"Ok solution, depending on your kitchen set up","I purchased this product over a year ago, and the best I can say is this is an ok product for me, but could be perfect for you.<br /><br />I used to always reach up to the top shelf, grab my box of k-cups, sift through them to find what I wanted, and then make my coffee. I tried to use the wooden box, but when you can only hold 20, and you use multiple k-cups per day, I just felt like I was always filling it, and didnt have enough room for variety.<br /><br />I bought this thinking it was perfect, holding 36 cups should last me a few weeks minimum. The Keurig would sit right on top and take up less room. What more could I ask for? Then when I brought it home though the truth came out.<br /><br />The draw is very well made and works perfect. However you are adding about 3 inches to the size of the keurig. Due to the height of my cabinets, it raised the machine just enough to not longer be able to open enough because the handle hits the cabinet. For a few days I was pulling it out and using it like that, but that got too annoying. Instead I now use the draw, but not with my coffee maker on it. It now holds my knife block instead, since those can still come out just fine.<br /><br />If your keurig is set up with no cabinet above it, this option is beyond perfect. However for me, I feel like it just added a bit of clutter, but I am willing to deal with it for the convience of the drawer."
,,,,,Wonderful space saver!,The drawer fit perfectly and is a real space saver!  It is just the right size and holds all our coffee choices.
,,,,,Excellent but...,This is an extremely useful product. The only reason it gets 4 out of 5 is I should have looked closer on the dimensions and the width of my cabinets....
,,,,,Great tray for storing various K-cup varieties,"Before I begin my review, let me say this... I read the product specs, ESPECIALLY THE DIMENSIONS...<br />I measured the space I have, and armed with that knowledge, I ordered the item.<br /><br />The item is exactly as described and pictured... and because I pre-measured, I KNEW it would fit (unlike other reviewers who apparently couldn't be bothered, and then give it a low-rating as a result).<br /><br />It's a simple design, and well built.  It's sturdy enough to hold the weight of my LARGE Cuisinart k-cup brewer, with a full reservoir.  It's a solid wire-frame build, and the rails the drawer runs on are part of that wire-design.  The mesh walls are a tad light-weight, but they aren't load-bearing, and are only meant for aesthetics and to contain the k-cups. (I also store Splenda packets in one column of mine.)<br /><br />Other than my 'normal' blend, I tend to have up to 5 additional flavors for a weekend treat, or just to mix it up on occasion... keeping these loose on the counter, or bouncing around mixed up in a box made it a pain to pick through them... but now I keep them in line in the segmented rows in the drawer.  Having a lack of storage space in my cupboards and kitchen drawers makes this the natural and ideal choice.<br /><br />Many have been disappointed that it didn't ""fit"" -- but all you need to do is measure your brewer's footprint, and it's height beneath your cupboards (if applicable).<br /><br />It's not a PERFECT item (the mesh could be a tad better grade, or the price about $5 lower) but otherwise highly recommended purchase."
,,,,,Unhappy With Purchase,"I purchased this item and then saw it for $20 less in a big retail store.  When I contacted Amazon I was told that they couldn't do anything for me and the price I paid was firm.  I wrote them and told them I was going to return the item and buy it where I had seen it for much cheaper and they just didn't care.  When I asked how much my refund was going to be they told me approximately $3.00 more than what they had credited me for.  I don't like to be deceived and I thought you get the best prices with Amazon, but that is not true at all.  Keep checking other places before you purchase from Amazon and there Customer Service stinks in my opinion.  Furthermore, I received my item from the other place and I love it!"
,,,,,"This is not necessarily a ""space saver""","So, I bought the Coffee Pod Drawer thinking it was the answer to my cluttered coffee area on my kitchen counter.  Not exactly.  First and foremost, let me say - this is a great product.  It does hold the pods neatly.  It has a nice, durable, slip resistant top that lets you feel comfortable that your Keurig won't slip or tip over. This is why I gave the product 4 stars.<br />My issue is this:  I purchased this simply because I thought it would use up less space on my counter if my K-Cups were stored inside this drawer and underneath my Keurig, as opposed to my (somewhat) bulky K-Cup Carousel.  (Which by the way, is chrome, and I really despise chrome.)  Anyways, what I did not consider was the fact that it raises your Keurig up by about 3.25 inches.  Before I bought this drawer, my Keurig had just enough space on the counter under the cupboard that it sits under, for me to lift the top of the Keurig open to put new K-Cups in, and to fill the water, etc.  That additional 3.25 inches really makes a difference.  I can no longer open the top of the Keurig all the way without banging the cupboard.  We all know that you don't NEED to open it all of the way, but when that's what you were used to doing, well, you can understand...  I pretty much bang the cupboard every day now.  Another drawback to the idea of purchasing this soley to save space, is that you can't keep anything in front of the drawer, since obviously, you need to open the drawer to get the K-Cups out. I used to keep the coffee condiments in front of my Keurig, and now I can't.<br /><br />Here's the bottom line: This is a great product in the sense that it gets the carousel (if you have one) off your counters.  But, I would only buy this if 1.) You have ample clearance above your Keurig now to be able to still lift the top open once you set this up, and 2.) You don't need to use the space in front of the drawer.<br /><br />Happy Coffee Drinking!<br /><br />Update:  02/20/12:<br />Almost a year later - I am still using the Storage Drawer.  Yes, from time to time I forget and still whack the cupboard, but the Keurig and the cupboard are no worse for the wear.  I still keep my eye out for better storage solutions, and none have really looked like they would be any better.  While the product is well made and has been durable (still looking practically new, and is heavily used in my kitchen) - I still think it's a bit pricey for what it is.  I just checked online and it still ranges from $25 to $45.  (I am hoping that nobody pays $45 for this when you can get it for $24.99, plus use a coupon for 20% off at Bed Bath and Beyond.)<br />Of all the reviews I have written on Amazon, this one seems to bring some not so nice comments from people. Which is kind of odd to me.  But everyone is entitled to their own opinion. I still hold firm at 4 stars.  As I mentioned in a reply to one comment - to me, that's a B+. There's nothing wrong with a B+ product.  I think most people that buy this product will be very impressed with it's durability.  Thanks for reading!"
,,,,,Nice Design but beware of clearance space,"<span class=""tiny""> Length:: 0:51 Mins<br /><br /></span>under-cabinet clearance when Keurig<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004L2NVVS"">Keurig Coffee Pod Drawer Holder 36 K-cup Capacity By My Perfect Kitchen</a> is sitting on top of pod drawer"
,,,,,I get my counter space back!,"I can finally get rid of the five boxes of K-cups sitting on my counter.  The padded top of the drawer shelf means I don't get a rattling vibration noise when the brewer runs, and the drawer slide action is very smooth.  The drawer extends far enough out that it's easy to get the last cup in a row, so you can see all the cups at once - much better than digging around in a bunch of boxes.  The whole thing feels very sturdy, and has a nice modern look to it."
,,,,,"Bed, Bath, and Beyond has it cheaper!","This is an excellent K-cup storage drawer. It holds the cups nicely. The drawer is a bit sturdy and supports the weight of the machine. It is easy to clean. I would definitely recommend this product to a loved one. However, I would also recommend that they purchase it elsewhere! I purchased the exact item at my local BB&B for 24.99 this past Sunday. That is almost half price."
,,,,,"What can I say, this thing rocks.","Where do you put your k-cups? Right F'ing here. That's where.<br /><br />This thing is solid and doesn't slide around on the counter-top plus it's sturdy enough to handle the Platinum Keurig without issue and it looks saucey too.<br /><br />I only gave it 4 stars as the slider tray was/is a little bent. Only noticeable if you're right up next to it. Definitely not the packaging or shipping damage, looks like it came from the factory this way.<br /><br />**also, since its of stock from this store, you can find it at Bed Bad Beyond for $25**"
,,,,,Not for us...  better off with a different product!,"Terrible clunky product.. drawer doesn't open/close without making clunky noises.  Not a space saver, hard on the eyes.  Would return it for a refund if I weren't terribly lazy.  Go to Bed Bath and Beyond and use a 20% off coupon for something else.  Not worth it."
,,,,,LOVE IT .....,"I store my mugs, creamer, splenda packets and napkins on top of this  and just love it. My coffee maker is next to it (it's like my little coffee station :-)) I didn't buy it here though because it's CHEAPER at Bed Bath & Beyond (24.99 + 5.99 shipping = 30.98) Here it's 47.95. I am gonna get a 2nd one to stack on top of my first and then put the same stuff i had on it back on top. I recommend this stackable drawer type unit.<br /><br />[....]"
,,,,,Was expecting better quality for the price but love the storage!,"First off I very much prefer this look to the rotating holders, plus it holds MORE K cups than they do.  I also like that it takes up less storage space than those carousels plus a machine.  I have limited counter top space and it is already crowded.<br />A minor issue, as I had read before, was that the added height to the machine causes lid to hit the cupboards while opening and closing. I am OK with pulling it away from the wall a bit and will eventually place my machine in a more open counter space to avoid this.  It does bother my husband more though.<br />I was disappointed with the product a bit.  My main problem was the material on the top of the drawer, that you rest the machine on, was not done very aesthetically.  AS soon as I opened what stood out to me was that it had to have been hand cut, and was cut slightly wrong on my product.  First I can still see the pencil mark all across the front.  Then it was cut too short and  coroner was not cut squarely.  It happens to h ave also been across the front edge of my product so it just sticks out to me and lessens it's appeal.<br />I find the drawer to operate smoothly and easily.  you can not reach the back row of K-cups while full but that is not a big deal to me at all."
,,,,,Great!!!,"This drawer is fabulous and holds a TON of kcups. It does make the machine too tall for low-hanging cabinets. However, it saves on total counter space needed (versus a carousel) and looks great. It is very sturdy and should last for a long time. I have the Keurig Platinum and have plenty of room to put sugar/Splenda packets or mugs. Love it!"
,,,,,Not worth it,"I have one of these and love it but I would never pay this much for it.  Got it a Bed, Bath, & Beyond for $24.99 and that was not a sale, just their regular price."
,,,,,glad I got this,"I have this drawer and the carousel, I find it easier and less cluttered to use the drawer. I also have my Keurig on top of it with lots of room around it for misc items."
,,,,,Space Saver,"This item is great. I dont have a lot of counter space in my kitchen or space in my draws to store my k-cups, so this item was perfect for me. It sits right below my keurig. I would highly recommend this item. A Great Buy and An Awesome Space Saver!"
,,,,,Space Saver,"Able to store my coffee right under the machine. I still have room on top for my soda maker (Keurig is a mini).<br />The only thing I don't like is that the pods that are in the back may be a little difficult to get. Would be better if there was a spring that would push these last pods forward slightly as the others get used. Other wise. much more useful than a carousel.<br />As another reviewer mentioned, can get this item for $25 at Bed bath.. and with usual 20% off coupons, for even less. It also does raise the Keurig about 3"" from the counter. So be sure to have room above the coffee maker as well as on the sides"
,,,,,Fantastic product but way too expensive on Amazon,"As other's have mentioned, this is available in other stores for much cheaper so I recommend to shop around before buying on Amazon.<br /><br />When it comes to the actual product, I highly recommend buying this if you own a Keurig. You are able to discretly hide so many of the Keurig cups. The carousel is a neat product but when you don't have counter space, it just doesn't work.<br /><br />This unit is pretty great quality but I do find that it is tough to slide sometimes. The material that they use on the top of the tray makes sure that your Keurig doesn't move at all.<br /><br />Highly recommend that you pick one up whether it be from BBB or Amazon!"
,,,,,"Nicely made, works great","I have a rather small kitchen and a ""Tower"" type holder would take up too much counter space.  This holder is perfect for me - the rubberized top holds my Keurig plus a sugar dispenser, a bowl of Sweet-n-Low, and a tall shot glass with coffee stir sticks.  Very convenient, and the drawer slides out easily to hold 36 K-cups.  I'm thinking of getting a 2nd one and stacking them so that I have room for 72 cups, clearance above my Keurig is good.<br /><br />4-stars for price, at ~$45 I had to really think about it for a bit.  But, it works better for me than the cheaper options would so I am happy with the purchase."
,,,,,The perfect counter space solution!,"Like a lot of people, I have very limited kitchen space, and my Keurig brewer itself takes up an entire countertop. I was never able to fit one of the traditional revolving K-cup stands in my kitchen, so I generally leave my K-cup boxes on top of the refrigerator. Not very tidy and a little inconvenient, but the best I could do. I was thrilled to find this holder at the store (where it cost about $25 - beware some of these Amazon seller prices!) and bought it immediately. It's perfect! It holds 36 K-cups at a time, so I can stock it and put the K-cups away in the closet for a few weeks until I start running low. It also complements my black and silver brewer nicely. It's very stable and has a no-slip top so you don't have to worry about your Keurig tipping over. It does add about 4 inches of height, so make sure you have enough clearance if your brewer is under a cupboard. Highly recommended."
,,,,,Very neat drawer for you coffee maker!,Plain and simple. All you have to do is buy this drawer and set your coffee maker on top of it AND you are done. Easy to get your k-cups whenever brewing coffee. Right at your fingertips.
,,,,,GREAT ORGANIZER WITHOUT NEEDING EXTRA SPACE!,"GREAT WAY TO STOCK YOUR K-CUP ASSORTMENT WITHOUT HAVING TO TAKE UP EXTRA COUNTERSPACE W/ANOTHER ITEM SUCH AS THE CAROUSEL OR TOWER UNITS OFFERED, IF YOUR KITCHEN IS SMALL."
,,,,,Overpriced OFF BRAND!!!,"Item appears to be Keurig brand by title & description (big $$$).  However upon receiving it, it is an off brand ""My Perfect Kitchen"" sold at Bed Bath & Beyond and at HALF the price. I was disappointed in the jading and sent it back. Signed up for BBB email promos and got a 20% off coupon for use in the store so I bought this EXACT item for $20 (reg only $24.99 in store).  I mean EXACT!  Do your homework and save yourself some money.  Oh and the item itself is great...we have the larger Platinum B70 and it does have an issue with the cupboards but I just pulled it forward about 3.5in and it's perfect.  I am fortunate enough to have a lot of counter space and I may move it to an open top area so for us it's all good :)"
,,,,,Much cheaper at Bed Bath and Beyond,This is a great product....HOWEVER it is only about 25.00 at Bed Bath and Beyond and if you look in the Sunday paper always a 20% off coupon.
,,,,,Perfection,"The Keurig storage drawer is a perfect match for the coffee maker, the coffee machine sits perfectly on the top and makes getting the refills soooo easy.<br />I looked at other storage options but I found this to be Ideal. Really glad I bought it."
,,,,,Save counter space,"I was ready to buy one of the carousel type k-cup storage devices when I saw this one.<br />It is a bit exepnsive, but it preserves counter space and keeps the k-cups right there.<br />I also use it to store the EZ cup reusable system."
,,,,,Excellent Product,"This was a gift for our daughter. She loves it,since it holds more cups than the carousel. She loads in her favorites in the front part, and less used flavors in the rear. The only drawback might be is that if your cabinets hang low over your countertop, you may have difficulty with the added inch or two in height, since the brewer sits on top of the drawer."
,,,,,It's ok I guess...,"Ordered this on the advice of the Single Serve Coffee forum.<br /><br />CONS:<br /><br />Drawer is metal mesh on metal mesh, so it doesn't slide smoothly.  It's pretty clunky to pull open and even harder to close.<br />It doesn't pull out far enough to reach the back of the drawer, so you have to tip the final K-Cup out, which is hard if you have an entire coffee maker on top.<br />Again, all mesh, so the cups don't sit smoothly in the tray, and the sections are a hair too narrow so the cups brush one another awkwardly.<br />My upper cabinets are raised higher than average because we are both tall, and this still didn't leave us enough room to open the maker while on the drawer.<br /><br />PROS:<br /><br />For our modern kitchen, it's nice to look at.<br />It comfortable fits my Capresso FrothPro on one side and two 64oz Ghirardelli bottles (front to back) on the other so it still saves us counter space.<br />When I tried my Keurig on it, I expected some buckling but it seemed to stand firm even with a full water tank.<br /><br />All in all, for $25 it's a lot nicer to look at than the spinning barrel style holders, and I don't need my coffee to be on display.  Plus it looks easy to clean which for me is a plus."
,,,,,Perfect K-Cup Storage Solution,I love this drawer. My Keurig Cuisinart Coffeemaker fits on it perfectly. It holds 36 K-cups so I always have many options for hot beverages right where I need them. I think it looks great and the drawer slides in and out very easily. Don't know how they could have made this simple item any better.
,,,,,Really nice,"I just got a Keurig for my mom who is 82 and disabled. It is so much easier now for her to get her cup of coffee and tea. I read over many reviews to decide whether to buy the carousel or this storage drawer. I finally decided on this for the space saving design. It was the right choice. It is sturdy, durable and somewhat attractive. It slides out smooth and quiet, and holds a nice amount of cups. It pulls out far enough so you can see the cups far in the back of the drawer. I am hoping that they will make one that has 2 drawers, one on top of the other, so I could store more cups at a time. This isn't beautiful if your looking at the aesthetic value of it, but works for what it is intended for."
,,,,,Tried others and this is the best,When I first purchased my Keurig coffee maker I couldn't decide how to store the K-cups. I didn't want to give<br />up my counter space for the carousel. I settled for a flat holder that with open compartments and could be<br />put in a drawer or attached to the wall. I didn't want to spend the extra few dollars for this drawer type.<br />After shifting that one around from drawer to balanced against the wall I finally gave in and went for this great holder that allows the Keurig to sit on top and now I have my counter space back and a nice neat area for my<br />Keurig. I hope that I can save someone some time and money by letting you know about my experience.
,,,,,Convenient,"Storage drawer is very handy to keep under the Keurig, instead of having sevaral boxes of K-cups. It is sturdy, however one of the adhesive foot pads came off (just stuck it back on) from moving the whole thing back and forth to open the pod lid wide enough."
,,,,,Love it,A birthday gift to myself. My hubby gave me the Keurig for Christmas. And I was having a hard time storing all my flavors of the K-Cups. I love this for you pull it out and there they are ....flavors and all. Good construction too. And it all fits under my cabinet with room to open and fill the reservoir.
,,,,,Keurig Storage Drawer,Drawer is much larger than it appears in photo and takes up much more space on the cabinet surface. The drawer is sticky and not easily opened or closed. I would not purchase again.
,,,,,Great item!,Bought this as a gift for my mom because she loved mine. It arrived very quickly and was just what she wanted. Thanks!!
,,,,,Nice but has it's short comings,First off I'm very happy that my Keurig Coffeemaker sits nicely atop this storage drawer without having to take up any extra counter space. But on the other hand it's difficult to reach the last K-cup in the very back of the drawer. I can live with it but they should have designed it so the drawer extended out a bit more for easy access.
,,,,,Nice!,"The slots wernt exactly evenly spaced and its a bit stiff to pull out/push in. But bottom line it works! And looks good! For the price, can't beat it."
,,,,,nice,The Keurig fits nicely on top of the drawer.  The drawer opens and closes with ease. It organizes your K-cups and saves counter shape.
,,,,,A very handy spacesaver,"My daughter has and enjoys this storage drawer.  Based on her recommendation, I ordered it and am very glad I did.  It looks nice, holds a lot of cups, and is very convenient.  Highly recommend."
,,,,,Storage Dawer,"I Decided to fasten it under our cabinet to save more space. It is very sturdy, well made, and works great,"
,,,,,looks so great on my countertop,"Love this!  It saves space and looks great.  I had to move the brewer out a litle bit from under my cabinets to be able to open the top, but otherwise no problem.  There's even enough room on top of the drawer to put my sweetener in a small holder."
,,,,,K cup drawer,"I love that this drawer holds so many k-cups! Its great to have them right under the machine. Its great for those times when I am having company, I can load it up with what I know they like. Each time someone different comes over, I can just simply put their choices in the drawer and they can make a fresh beverage any time they want, they dont need to dig in my pantry or come get me to make something for them. Handy to have! I love it!"
,,,,,Practical space saver,My husband drilled some extra holes and mounted it under a cabinet.  It holds more than my carousel and you can see all the flavors at once. The hard mesh sides and front allows you to easily check the coffee supply without opening the drawer. There were no sharp edges on the metal  Looks like it will hold up well.  A good value for the money.
,,,,,I like it!,My order arrived quickly and was packaged well and well worth the price. I like it better than the stand up K-cup holder because this goes right under the coffee maker and doesn't take up extra space. The drawer slides in and out smoothly too.
,,,,,"space saver, doesn't slide well","I don't know if I have bad one (doubt it), but it doesn't slide well unless you lift up on it.  It's like the tracks are too tight, and if you try pulling straight out, it hangs, and then the cups inside go flying when it finally does slide because you end up jerking it."
,,,,,Perfect for small office,I bought this for my office. It was perfect because it fits just right on the mini fridge with room for my mugs on the side. We love it because you can now see what to pick from when before we were going through boxes of k-cups.
,,,,,Exactly what I wanted!,"This drawer is very sturdy (as long as it's on a flat surface) and holds plenty of K cups. It's great because it doesn't use your counter space and even with my heavy CuisinArt K cup coffee maker on top, it still slides in and out very easily. Love it!"
,,,,,Loving it!,"I had been frustrated trying to figure out how to store the K-cups on my counter top.  The carousals were not only spendy, but took up too much space.  I love this product.  Yes it does raise my machine up....but isn't that to be expected when it goes under the machine? I get a kick out of people putting down a product when it is exactly as described and the reviewer didn't have the foresight to see this. Besides, mine does not sit under the cupboard, so its not a problem.  The drawer slides easily and the top does not sag or buckle under the weight.  It is perfect for my limited space. I would like to find one just like this one, but a little smaller for my smaller machine at work."
,,,,,EXCELLENT!,The product arrived quickly.  It was just perfect and although it says it holds 36 K-cups - it actually holds MORE if you turn every other one upside down!  We have our coffee maker sitting on top and just love the convenience of the coffee right there. THANKS for a great product.
,,,,,Keurig K-Cup holder,I received the Keurig K-Cup shelf and it is a perfect addition to the Keurig coffee maker and allows you to have 40 or so K-cups nearby without having to look at them (like you would have with the K-Cup tree).
,,,,,It is what it is,"Sturdy. well made. convenient. Fits well under the Keurig machine and does not take extra space, Easy pull out drawer to view coffee choices"
,,,,,HA!  This thing is AWESOME.,"This drawer is just awesome for holding the K-cups when the boxes get nearly empty, and it seems pointless to store them on the shelf.  It keeps the k-cups nice and dry and handy.  Best of all is that the machine can rest safely on the top, giving it it's own little area in the kitchen, kind of like a little break room.  We love this, and the shelf we bought to hang on the wall to hold the boxes."
,,,,,Get what you pay for.,Ordered 2 both had bent tracks and I actually cut my finger on one of the wires sticking out. But you get what you pay for....
,,,,,Great K-cup Drawer!!!,"Works great. Definitely worth the $21.38. I read another review that the drawer sticks. I ran into this problem also. Easy fix, just bend the sides of the pull out drawer in (with a little bit of pressure). I was afraid that I might break it, but it seems to be very sturdy. Like I said just a little bit of pressure & the drawer slides out no problem. Believe me if it had issues I would never hear the end of it from my wife. Also I have my Keurig B40 on top of it with no issues of bowing, & there is enough room on the side to fit some containers ""Creamer & Sugar"". Makes the counter top a lot more functional."
,,,,,Better than expected,This is very sturdy and not as some reviews were that stated this was flimsy.<br />I have no issues with it at all and would highly recommend it to anyone of my friends.
,,,,,"Looks good, but does not open and close smoothly","Looks good, but does not open and close smoothly.  The drawer has medal feet that fit into a groove in the bottom of the unit as a track.  The tray sticks a lot and you have to hold the top of the unit to jerk the drawer out."
,,,,,Fast & Easy,My order was processed quickly and arrived on time. Slide it out of the box and set it in place. Now everything is at my finger tips.
,,,,,cescob,Good solid product.  Saves room when storing your k cups.  One thing to check is the space under your cabinet.  My Keurig is on my kitchen counter and I had to pull it out from under the cabinet since the tray would not open with the extra height.
,,,,,Nice rack!!!,"This item works  out great!!!Keeps everycup of coffee at your fingertips, and definitely looks good sitting on my unclutterd counter.!!  Quick ship...AAAA+++++"
,,,,,Space saver,Great storage for coffee and space saver.  May purchase another to stack them as we have enough space under cabinet.
,,,,,Convenient and attractive storage,"This is an attractive way to store all those k-cups, and they are right under the machine, never lost or mixed up.  The shelf pretty much matches any decor and the drawer does not rub or stick.  I love it."
,,,,,Fell Apart,"I have never taken the time to write a review before, but in this case others need to be warned off. I expected to get a product similar to what I have seen in the stores, but this obviously is a replica. The sliders on the bottom of the tray that are supposed to keep the tray straight when you slide it in and out broke off before I even got it out of the package. It is not something you can fix unless you have a solder gun. Even then, it is very ""sticky"" pulling the tray out because there are no rollers. It is metal on metal, which does not work well without some sort of lubrication. I love Amazon, but this product is inferior at best."
,,,,,Great Product even for the Higher Price,"This product is well worth the money.  Others carry a similar product that's cheaper, but the quality is way cheaper also."
,,,,,5 Stars...but here's why...,"I am giving this 5 stars, not because it fits the way it ""should"" but because I love it where I put it.  First, this does not fit under my Keurig properly, my lid to the Keurig will not open all the way if this sits UNDER the machine.  This is a quality piece-it does not feel flimsy or a crappy build.  The drawer works smooth with no problems.  The K-Cups fit perfectly!  The reason I love it is I had my husband drill a few holes and mounted it under my counter (in the corner where the cupboards meet).  (I uploaded two pictures under images for you to see what I mean).  This works GREAT as an under the counter holder.  I warn you, measure your cupboards first, some of my cupboards were not deep enough to install this as an ""under counter"" product.  However, the ""corner"" where my cupboards meet worked super.  I love that it's ""off"" my counter but it actuallly looks nice and keeps all the cups in a space that is easy to use and does not take up precious counter space in my small kitchen!"
,,,,,I wished it fit under the coffee pot...,Nice storage drawer..matches nicely in my kitchen...only drawback is I can't store it under the coffee maker due to not be able to open the keurig dispenser so I store it under my toaster.  Other than that it's really nice.
,,,,,Half the price elsewhere,I bought this one until I saw one exactly like it at a big box store (think red bullseye) for 24.99. This is going back!
,,,,,Great product buy it at Bed Bath & Beyond,I've been looking at this holder since I saw it at the at my office. Today I found it at BB&B for $24. It works great but too expensive at Amozon.
,,,,,Nice,"If you like gadget, this is one more to add to your collection.<br />It works and fits nicely on a counter top.  You can then<br />put the machine on top of this drawer, saving space.<br />It glides smoothly."
,,,,,Handy Organizer,"Coffee maker nicely stacks on top of drawer saving counter space.<br />I bought two since I keep a wide variety of K-cups.<br />However, I purchased mine at Bed, Bath and Beyond for about half the price."
,,,,,Keurig K-Cup storage drawer and Twinings English Breakfast Tea K-Cups,I was not particularly happy with the storage drawer as it is made of wire and the cups don't sit in it flat.
,,,,,Krurig K-Cup Storage Drawer Coffee Holder for 36 K-Cups,Works well with my Keurig Cofee Maker. Always have K-cups handy. Uses less space than the other types of holders. glad I ordered this item.
,,,,,K-cup storage & Stand for Coffee Brewer,I use my storage drawer for my assorted k- cups and my Keurig sits ATP the storage drawer. It has an easy clean top and is attractive and practical.
,,,,,Great product,We love this tray. It is very sturdy and holds just enough K cups. I would recommend this to everyone
,,,,,Very stylish,"I purchased this storage drawer so that I could better organize my mass of K-Cups. It currently sits underneath my Keurig. It looks very nice and does what it is supposed to. It is a simple design and while it doesn't save a lot of room, it doesn't take up much room either."
,,,,,Keurig Coffee Tray,Tray fits perfectly under the coffee maker.  Color compliments color of coffee maker.  Non-skid top keeps coffee maker in place. Drawer is ventilated.  Ample storage space.  Love it.
,,,,,SO handy!,"I love products that reduce clutter, are functional, and don't hurt your eyes to look at. I really like this drawer. I have it beneath my Cuisinart Keurig K-Cup Mini Brewing System. It's sturdy enough to hold the coffee maker. This is a product I would highly recommend!!"
,,,,,Best K-Cup Storage Unit!,A wonderfully ingenious way to keep all your K-cups in one place without taking up extra counter space! Keeps several different types of my favorite coffee.  I love it!
,,,,,"Looks nice, is discreet, saves space, and keeps you organized","What a great idea!  I hated wasting a whole drawer with my various K-cup boxes (tea, cider, coffees, etc).  I thought about the carousels, but didn't like the idea of having it on my counter.  I wanted something that was more: 1) discreet; and 2) space saving.<br /><br />1) More discreet: Yes!<br />It looks nice and you can't even tell what is in it.<br /><br />2) Space saving: Yes!<br />My Keurig B60 fits perfectly on it.<br /><br />I hate having cluttered looking counter tops.  This drawer allows me to store my cups neatly, in a unit that looks nice.  I also love how it has dividers for each row to allow you to organize your K-cups.  You cna slo pull the drawer out pretty far, so that you can see all of your k-cups.  I also LOVE that I get my drawer (where my k-cups were previously stored) back!<br /><br />I do wish that the top of it looked a little nicer. The black, spongy material on the top looks a little cheap. Because most of it is covered with the Keurig, you don't really see much of it anyway, so it isn't a big deal at all.  But, the material is a bit on the cheaper side - still nice though!<br /><br />Additional Notes - Things that were mentioned by previous posters already, but that bear repeating:<br /><br />1) Beware: With your keurig on top of it, you may not be able to open the top.<br />I wasn't thinking (and failed to read one of the reviews that mentioned this) and got this without realizing this.  Duh!  Sure enough, I can't open the top with my keurig on the drawer.  Ooops.  No biggie though - someone commented with a great idea: Put felt on the bottom of the drawer so that you can easily slide the entire unit out when you need to use your keuirg. I plan to do this.<br /><br />2) It is MUCH cheaper elsewhere.<br />At the time of this review, it is listed on Amazon for almost $50.  But, thanks to a previous reviewer, I found it on Bed, Bath, and Beyond for $25...and, I got free shipping too!!!"
,,,,,good but pricy,"looked all over for this. great space saver.  keeps the pods neat. water proof top is great for me, keeps me from soaking the kcups"
,,,,,"Space saver, be careful if your coffee maker is under a cabinet","Pros:<br />This is a fairly simple product.  A metal drawer with dividers. Great for organizing all the your K-cups. Less counter space than a carousel.<br /><br />Cons:<br />EXPENSIVE...A metal drawer with dividers for almost $50.  It raises your coffee maker about 3.25"".  We have a Keurig B60 and when it is placed on this product and shoved back towards the wall it will not open fully to accept the K-cup because of the wall cabinets it resides under.  Its not a big deal to just pull the unit forward but I think its definitely worth mentioning."
,,,,,Keurig K cup storage drawer,"Here is the perfect solution for storing K cups until you need them.  It holds 36 K cups and there is plenty of room for ""his"", ""hers"" and ""theirs.<br /><br />This unit is well built, light in weight, perfectly functional in design and low enough so you can put your Keurig coffee maker on top of it and still put it under your overhead kitchen cabinets."
,,,,,Perfect for us,"This is so nice to have when space is limited.  Because of the height of our cabinets we were not able to place this under the machine, but have it on the side with our other coffee making supplies on top.  It stores plenty of Kcups for easy use. Much better for us than a stand."
,,,,,k cup holder,This is my second purchase.  I have so many varieties of tea and coffee that one was not enough space.  They stack nicely next to my Keurig.
,,,,,Perfect storage solution,"Not only does this store all those annoying little Kcups, but I put sugar packs and creamers it it too.  The black top is great because it doesn't show every little splash of coffee. A much better solution that the tree-type stands!"
,,,,,I love this storage drawer,"When I originally started looking to buy a Keurig, it was a deal that came with this drawer.  I thought it seemed like a great idea immediately.  I ended up waiting a couple more months before I bought my Keurig and it no longer came with the drawer.  I looked everywhere for the drawer because I liked how it kept the cups hidden from view, but still handy like one of the carousels.  I couldn't find the drawer - it was sold out everywhere I looked for a month.  I finally found it on Amazon, and at a good price.  The drawer has lived up to my expectations.  I keep my Keurig in an area where there are no upper cabinets, so I don't have trouble with it being higher now.  I also alternate K-cups facing up and down so I can get more in the drawer.  I highly recommend this product if you're looking for a way to keep K-cups within easy reach, organized, and hidden."
,,,,,Discrete and Attractive,This storage drawer fits in perfectly on our countertop. We can either set the Keurig on top of it or beside it and still store a large amount of k-cups where people can get at them easily. Totally satisfied!
,,,,,Perfect!,"Saw this at a local big-box chain store, so of course I had to look for it on Amazon as soon as I got home. Received the item in 2 days (Prime really rocks, doesn't it?) and am so happy; we can finally get rid of our K-cup carousel.<br /><br />This drawer holds more K-cups and keeps them out of sight, freeing countertop real estate. It glides open smoothly and seems very well made. It was shipped in a nice sturdy box and arrived in excellent condition. The drawer has 6 divided sections, each of which holds 6 K-cups. Perfect for us, since we like variety! The drawer doesn't pull completely out, but has a built-in stop; it doesn't seem to make it harder to get the last K-cup out, at least for me. I'm a female with average lady-fingers. YMMV. Still, I like the stop, I wouldn't want to have K-cups rolling all over the kitchen floor.<br /><br />Note - if you keep your machine under upper cabinets, you'll likely need to pull it out away from the wall to allow enough clearance to insert K-cups and fill the reservoir. We just turned our unused kitchen desktop (it's counter is 3-4"" lower) into a coffee station.<br /><br />My only complaint is that Amazon doesn't carry the T-disc version of this drawer, so tomorrow it's back to the store to buy one of those. Got to keep my Tassimo machine happy, too!<br /><br />This product is a no-brainer!"
,,,,,Congeneal,This is a great idea and a well made product.  It just seems to me that it was a no brainer to slide the whole thing out from under the cupboard.  This item is a great space saver.
,,,,,PERFECT K-cup Storage!,"Until I found this item, I was taking up valuable storage space in my overhead cabinet with 3 boxes of K-cups.  (I like variety!)  This tray is sturdy, holds plenty of K-cups, and basically disappears from view once you put it under your Keurig.  I love it so much that I ordered one for my cousin - we both grew up reciting ""a place for everything, and everything in it's place"" - guess what?  She loves it, too!  If you're lamenting having bought the carousel, simply sell it at your next garage sale and give this tray a try!"
,,,,,K cup fan,"K-cup storage drawer is great.  I have the carousel, but wanted additional K cup storage.  The drawer fits the bill, and takes up no additional space since it sits underneath the Keurig Brewer.  No more K Cup boxes to hide somewhere."
,,,,,Perfect For What I Was Looking For,"I was originally looking for Keurig coffee on Amazon and stumbled across this gem.  I bought it for work to centralize my coffee ""stuff"" and it has been perfect - k-cups, stirrers, sweetener packets, all fit nicely in one place...right below my Keurig!  The only thing that would make this product better would be if the dividers in the drawer were solid so stirrers didn't have a chance to roll around, but since I can tell it was originally designed to only hold k-cups I can't complain.  Great for saving space and looks nicer than the tall, spice rack looking k-cup holders out there - would def recommend."
,,,,,Greatest invention ever,"I purchased this holder after seeing it in an open house and I just had to have one. Very well built and engineered. The drawer slides very easy and it holds more K-cups than I expected. Overall, a great design with no disappointments. Definitely recommend buying one since it takes up no more space than the coffee maker itself."
,,,,,Great storage,Good storage of the K-Cups as well as enough storage so that it can support my Keurig coffee maker.  It easily solved the problem of how to store all my K-Cups much better than the rotating tower.
,,,,,"Simple, low profile - we like it!","We're neat people and keep our counter clear so this works great for us. It is well made, slides easily, and loads in a minute... also cups don't catch sunlight like the vertical racks would in our bright kitchen."
,,,,,Probably my most used luster dust!,Such a great little item to have in your cake/cookie decorating collection. Adds great accents. Silver is probably my most used color because it can be added to so many colors.<br /><br />Highly recommend you check your local Michaels or Joann's. Amazon usually has competitive prices but these are $3-4 at your local craft store - $8 is WAYY overprice on amazon.com.
,,,,,Absolutely stunning!,This product is wonderful! Just apply it with a nice paint brush to almost any creation and watch it sparkle! I have had so many ooo's and ahhh's over my cookies because of the sparkles. I add some to the leaves of my royal frosting flowers and they turn out gorgeous as well. I cannot wait to try the other colors! Even though fondant is sick tasting..it can look stunning! It almost makes me want to eat it..almost.
,,,,,So versatile! Must have for cake decorators,No obvious taste! So perfect for decorating cakes!!<br /><br />Highly recommend you check your local Michaels or Joann's. Amazon usually has competitive prices but these are $3-4 at your local craft store - $8 is WAYY overprice on amazon.com.
,,,,,Good,"I ordered this for my brother's 30th Birthday cake and having never used anything like it before I was a bit clumsy with it.  There isn't much, but it goes a long way. It covered the chocolate genache great and it looked very cool-as did my entire kithen for a week because it gets everywhere...proceed with caution in the kitchen."
,,,,,A little silver dusting goes a long way!,"While it may not look like much initially, I am very satisfied with the amount of shine the silver dust gives with mixed with some vodka and applied on pastillage. Made quite a difference for the look of a birthday cake i'm making. Item arrived in a timely manner and is well-packed."
,,,,,Silver Pearl Dust,"The silver pearl dust is reasonably easy to use, please use a light and careful touch. I used this to decorate spritz cookies, I used the tree mold, and the cookies were lovely and tasty!"
,,,,,Great for cake decorating,"So versatile! White pearl can be used to decorate almost anything! Dust or paint it onto chocolate decorations (see Whimsical Bakehouse book), directly onto icing and cookies!<br /><br />Highly recommend you check your local Michaels or Joann's. Amazon usually has competitive prices but these are $3-4 at your local craft store - $8 is WAYY overprice on amazon.com."
,,,,,Beautiful Results,"The product came in a small vile and I honestly thought that there wouldn't be enough to dust all of the cookies with it. To my surprise, I ended up making more cookies than originally planned, dusted them with the pearl dust, and had so much of it left over! I was so amazed at how far this stuff goes! It gave the cookies such a beautiful finish!"
,,,,,"Only Discovered This Recently, Bronze Powder is Truly Lustrious and Beautiful.","I wish I had found this product sooner.<br />So far have only used it on my homemade chocolate truffles, and it does add a beautiful, almost mysterious bronze luster to them.  Almost hard to believe that it really IS edible.<br />Very happy with it and would definitely recommend."
,,,,,Silver Dust,When I added this to the cake it was so beautiful that I couldn't believe it! Even the customer was impressed! It made the cake look more professional for someone who's still learning to make beautiful cakes.
,,,,,The best chipotle in refried beans...How can you go wrong?,"San Marcos is by far the best brand of chipotle in adobo. Take that wonderful, smokey flavor and add it to refried beans and it's a no-brainer. These are a great medium hot bean."
,,,,,Limited edition flavor that deserves a try.....,"I have recently started buying Erin Baker's Breakfast cookies because they are a fast, easy and nutritious way for me to start my day.  This flavor is not always available as it is a limited edition flavor, but fear not, these cookies do very well when frozen and can go directly from the freezer to the microwave for about 40 seconds, and you have a nice chewy delicious cookie.<br /><br />This flavor is delicious-some of the major ingredients are whole grain rolled oats, raisins, dried apples, walnuts, coconut and spices (cinnamon, nutmeg and carrot cake spices).  The cookie comes in at 310 calories, 18% fiber, with 17g of sugar and 15% iron.<br /><br />I was doubtful that a large cookie would sustain me, as lunch for me is about 5.5 hours away, but I have no problem, this cookie is filling and delicious.  As with any fiber filled product, make sure you do drink fluids.<br /><br />If you do buy these or any of the other Breakfast cookies, be assured that you can freeze and microwave, so on the limited edition flavors, you can buy extra if you really love a particular flavor."
,,,,,Not my favorite,"I bought these in Mid-July ('09) with 2 day delivery along with 4 other flavors.  This is my least favorite.  I still have the original bunch while I've finished the others and have re-ordered them.  For some reason, there is an after-taste that I really don't like with this flavor.  Wish I did like it.  I will keep getting the others through Subscribe and Save as long as they are available.  The others are great when I don't want to cook a full breakfast or lunch. I do freeze and microwave them, then drink a cup of milk with them.  Very filling and satisfying.  I recommend the other flavors I've tried but not this one.  I've tried and like the Oatmeal and Raisin, the Banana Walnut,  the Chocolate Chunk, and the Apple and Caramel flavors.  YMMV"
,,,,,Erin Baker Breakfast Cookies,"So far, I have tried caramel apple, fruit & nut, morning glory, and banana walnut flavers. I have also ordered, (but not yet received) the pumpkin spice cookies. All of them are an excellent meal replacement or nutritious snack. The ingredients are wholesome, there is no high fructose corn syrup, and they have a good supply of protein & fiber to stave off hunger for several hours. The caramel apple is probably my favorite because it seems to be the moistest, but I really love all of the flavors. Like other reviewers, I freeze them, and then microwave a cookie for 20 seconds when I am ready to eat it. I find the cookies taste best warmed up. Even though the calorie count is higher than many cookies, I think you get a lot of nutritional ""value"" with these."
,,,,,Not A Good Flavor!,"I have tried many flavors of Erin Baker's Breakfast Cookies, and until I tried this one, I liked them all.  The ingredients list mentions that they have a touch of carrot cake spice added..........but it's more than a touch. Unless you really, really love carrot cake, you might want to make a different flavor selection. My favorite is the chocolate chunk cherry but it appears it is only seasonal.....I wish I could get it all year long. The oatmeal raisin is my second favorite. I wish I had ordered them instead of these morning glory."
,,,,,Tastes a little dry,The cookies at first taste good but it follows up with an interesting after taste.  It is also a little dry had to down a whole glass of milk but overall it wasn't too bad.
,,,,,Trail food extraordinaire,"Erin Baker Breakfast Cookies are an excellent alternative to energy bars and other trail foods.  They pack well and provide 300 nutritious calories and sustenance.  They are not gourmet desert cookies, they have a lower ratio of sugar and fat, and more whole grain carbohydrates.  They won't taste as good, but they will provide energy without a sugar spike, or clogging your arteries with saturated fats.<br /><br />They're still pretty good tasting to me, and taste even better during an 8 mile hike."
,,,,,Good flavor,"I decided to give these a try, but was a little nervous about the flavor -- I normally go with chocolate or oatmeal raisin. These are great! Kind of fruity, but very good.<br />I think these are perfect for mornings where I don't have time for breakfast and want something I can grab and eat while driving or once I'm at the office."
,,,,,Not Just For Breakfast,"I ordered these cookies after purchasing some chocolate ones at a local grocer.  The natural ingredient list is what caught my attention. We have enough food products on the market that are over-processed and contain so many artificial things that most people can't even pronounce. I ordered the Morning Glory variety in a trio pack  which also contained the Oatmeal Raisin and the Fruit and Nut varieties.  Since I had tried the chocolate cookie but was not aware of the other choices, I started combing the internet in an attempt to mass-order these cookies.  After seeing the huge variety of cookies available directly from the product maker, I took a chance on looking at Amazon to compare prices.  Bingo, Amazon won, since the value of the cookies came to a couple of cents more than $1.00 per cookie, I had to place an order.  Everyone who has tasted these cookies have fallen in love with them.  I highly recommend them to anyone who is looking a wholesome, natural snack that you can feel good about eating or serving to guests."
,,,,,These are awesome,"Sue, I think you got a bad batch, these are awesome! I have ordered them three times now and each time they have been soft, tasty, and easily slide out of the bags. I sincerely think you got a bum pack. I have tried a couple of other flavors too but prefer this one over the others. The cookies are healthy and fast and most of all, taste great."
,,,,,glad I found these!,"Years ago, on one of the shopping networks on TV (quality, value and convenience), the company was doing bus tours where they 'discovered'  entrepreneurs with new and innovative products to sell and they helped them to establish themselves and their products in the marketplace.  A great service I wish this company would do again...<br />Anyway, there was one lady entrepreneur, whose product happened to be a healthy breakfast cookie such as this....<br />I think perhaps it could have been Erin Baker, I could not verify this.<br />I know at the time, I purchased several quantities of this lady's cookies (do not remember the variety) and was VERY pleased with them :)<br />Then, the product was no longer available :(  I was able to get them for awhile at retail store about 25 miles from me and they were costlier than on TV, so stopped purchasing them.<br />Time went by, and my husband requested an item like this to pack in his lunch box for work as well as my teenage son requesting the same for before school in the mornings.<br />After Googling breakfast cookie with thought of making them myself from a recipe, I found Erin Baker on AMAZON and it was like finding an old friend :)<br />Still have not made at home my own cookies, but I will when time allows.<br />For the time being, as long as I can get them on AMAZON for a decent $price$, I will continue to do so. It is nice to have several varieties, when available.<br />Though, I see some of the reviews do not rave about this item as much as I have here, personally, for what they are, I do not hesitate to recommend them and our family enjoys them in moderation."
,,,,,Deeeeeeee-licious,"I eat a cookie every morning for breakfast, different kinds. I don't get hungry until later in the afternoon. I have lost 7 pounds in the last month because I'm not overeating trash all day. I'm not saying it's the cookies that are all-responsible, but I eat the cookie and I'm full, then can think about what I'd like for lunch instead of just eating."
,,,,,Goodies for Breakfast,"Erin Baker's Breakfast Cookies are the greatest!! I ordered Morning Glory as one of the flavors last time, and they are very good. My favorite is the Banana Walnut , and I rate them as excellent."
,,,,,Yuck!,"There are WAY too many flavors going on in this breakfast cookie...at least for my tastebuds.  Whomever was in charge of adding spices really went too far -- to the point that it is actually nauseating.  Obviously, I won't be ordering this one again."
,,,,,great nutrition and taste,I eat these cookies frequently using the subscribe method.  The nutrition provided is high quality.<br />I recommend all the Erin cookies for a snack or meal.
,,,,,Nothing great to say,It is just okay to me. This product's flavor does not impress me as much as the vegan choc chunk ones offered by Erin.
,,,,,WOW!  This tastes great and have lost weight!,"I am surprised by how good this breakfast cookie's flavor is; it has depth of spices and textures and is truly delicious.<br /><br />300 calories seemed a bit high, but I ate one with a large glass of water and it has been 4 hours and my tummy is not growling yet, I even worked out too.<br /><br />I love that it doesn't have any freaky ingredients and it was very soft and moist.  I gave a little pinch of it to my toddler daughter and she enjoyed it too.  I prefer to have actual oatmeal in the morning with fruit and yogurt, but these breakfast cookies are great if the morning goes sideways and I don't have time or opportunity to fix something.<br /><br />The problem I found with other protein bars and such is that in about 2 hours I was feeling peckish and looking for snacks until lunch.  I did not have that problem with this breakfast cookie,  it may have more calories than I thought I wanted to ""spend,"" but it is very worth it since it keeps me out of the kitchen until lunchtime.<br /><br />Another nice thing: there are not any chips or icing on this cookie to melt in the mid-day heat, so you can keep one of these in the purse or diaper bag without creating a big mess for yourself later ;)<br /><br />I keep them in the freezer for freshness, they are really moist and chewy once you let them thaw or microwave.  I put one on a saucer and nuke for 20-30 seconds from frozen solid, it turns out like its warm from the oven.  I do not recommend keeping them in the fridge, baked goods and bread will get dried out if kept there.<br /><br />UPDATE:I have lost 35 pounds in the last year with very minimal changes and these cookies have helped me go from not eating breakfast and snacking all morning, to eating breakfast no matter how busy and not needing to snack or eat until lunchtime. They are very filling and are perfect for when you don't have time to make anything."
,,,,,"Delicious, healthy and filling","Ironically, I am an Amazon seasonal worker.  I discovered these tasty treats while working on the sales floor...I kept thinking, ""Wow, I sure ship alot of these things; WHAT are they?""  So I went home and checked them out on line for myself...I am a very active and healthy person.  I am ALWAYS looking for wholesome breakfast options; I have a hard time eating in the AM...These cookies are so filling and delish!!  I eat one at around 8 am and I am FINE until lunch...Healthy ingredients to fuel your busy day/lifestyle...I can't wait to put them in my back pack when I go hiking next!!!!"
,,,,,Breakfast,"This is another great Breakfasr Cookie from Erin, would definately buy again. Great to carry when you must skip a meal."
,,,,,Too Sweet,"Honestly, with the amount of sugar in these, they are not much better than eating a 300 calorie regular cookie. I don't think these are that ""healthy."" The cookies taste fine, but I won't repurchase."
,,,,,Home Run Cookie,This is one badass cookie. I got these on sale at Amazon Warehouse..good deal. Otherwise it's a good expensive cookie..what else can I say? Grab some!
,,,,,"Taste 3 stars, Price 5 stars, So 4 stars......","So far have tried two flavors, this and oat & raisins and prefer the other better. This flavor tastes a little bland compared to the other for some reason even though it has more ingredients. But it's not inedible or anything, just a little bland.<br /><br />As for whether it helps you feel full.... I'd say it doesn't for me cause it's just a 3oz size afterall and I'm used to eating a lot more. But I always skip breakfast so eating this is better than nothing considering studies show breakfast is the most important meal of the day. Eating breakfast also helps you lose weight and raise metabolism.<br /><br />I'd give the taste 3 stars but bought it for amazing $2 (17 cents each cookie) so price gets 5 stars which avg out to 4 stars."
,,,,,Delicious and satisfying. My favorite flavor in their line.,"I enjoy several varieties of the Erin Baker breakfast cookies (Banana Nut, Pumpkin Spice), but this is my favorite.  Not too sweet for my taste, very satisfying and filling.  I heat in microwave for about 33 seconds and good to go.  Great with coffee or tea.  I keep them in the freezer as they recommend (you must do this as they can get mold otherwise) and they always taste fresh and fine to me. (They are wrapped/packaged very nicely for the freezer.) Also good in the toaster (crispy crust).<br /><br />These are one of my favorite quick breakfasts on hurried mornings, and sometimes I even enjoy them on a relaxed Sunday morning. I buy these regularly and quality has remained consistently good.  I recommend these highly."
,,,,,Cookies are great anytime,The breakfast cookie is excellent. My grandson came back from a scouting trip and said it was better than the energy bars they were given to eat. Nice blend for any time of day. I pop mine from the freezer into the microwave for about 20-30 seconds. Taste  best warm.
,,,,,"Convenient food, but it's really a cookie, not a meal replacement","I knew before buying that the ingredients weren't all that wholesome: evaporated cane juice, enriched wheat flour, what are those doing in a breakfast? If a product is claiming to be a healthy breakfast, it should really have 100% unadulterated ingredients. (I'll give the Erin Baker's brand its due for using aluminum-free baking powder.) All that having been said, if you regard this as a cookie rather than a meal replacement, you'll be happy with it. It's healthy for a cookie, tastes decent, and fantastically convenient (take it out of the freezer in the morning and it's good to go in 2 hours without heating). But despite what other reviewers have said, it's a high-calorie snack at best. I am a 115 lb female and this barely held me over for about 2 and a half hours before I was starving again. If you're someone with a small appetite, try packing it with a piece of fruit-- Bottom line, it's a healthy cookie, not breakfast, much less a healthy breakfast."
,,,,,"Great option for a quick, healthy & filling breakfast on the go","Slightly biased because this company was started near my hometown, but I've been a fan of Erin Baker's Breakfast Cookies for years since I first noticed them popping up at coffee shops back home.  Now living on the other side of the country I was pleasantly surprised to find them on Amazon, and even more excited to find them at such a great price!  Store them in the freezer, pop them in the toaster and it's like eating a fresh baked cookie that is full of good things for you and keeps you from getting hungry till lunch.  High in fiber and much better tasting than any energy bar out there, who doesn't love a cookie for breakfast?  I love these things, will be ordering more soon to keep our freezer well stocked!"
,,,,,The Best,"Erin's ""cookies"" are the awesome - great for an on-the-run family when there's no time for a longer breakfast.  I keep them on hand at all times for my kids so they can grab one when they go out the door to school or work......I even keep two in my car console for those moments when I need some fast nutrition while driving.  Tasty, good for you and quick -- as an active family, what more could we want?"
,,,,,Morning Glory Breakfast Cookies,"These are very good!  I like several of the flavors of these cookie and usually have one a few times per week.  Very convenient to eat in the car while taking my daughter to school.  Product is wholesome too, so you can feel good about eating them.  I order frequently and hope Amazon continues to carry them."
,,,,,Good quick meal,"The three ounce breakfast cookies are a small meal in a cookie and the individually wrapped cookies are easy to keep in a desk drawer, or to carry in a back pack or briefcase.  They are good for people on the go, and have reasonably balanced nutrition (6 grams of protein, 6 grams of fiber, 8 grams of fat).  They are listed as having 300 calories.  They have an expiration date noted on the wrapper.  I have tried many different flavors over many years, and have never found a flavor I did not like.  The listing of ingredients is in white lettering on an orange background on the wrapper,and is almost impossible to read, but the ingredients can be obtained from the Web page.  The Morning Glory cookies have a good combination.  It is worth sampling the different cookie flavors, and you will undoubtedly have favorites."
,,,,,good eating,This made an excellent Mother's Day gift.  My mom with discriminating taste is truly enjoying them.  They have just the right amount of small-sweetness for breakfast and a flavor she likes.  The packaging makes them good for a mail order gift.
,,,,,Great taste !,"I first purchased Erin Baker's Breakfast Cookie in the Caramel Apple flavor. While it was tasty and very fulfilling, I wasn't forsure if I was in love with them (and really, why waste your time eating something you don't love?) So, based on customer reviews I then tried the Morning Glory Breakfast cookie.. I loved the bits of nut and I have to say  it is tasty and fulfilling! It is my 2nd favorite cookie and I easily give them a 5 star rating!<br /><br />I again began browsing the cookie flavors and spent time reading customer reviews and decided to try the Peanut Butter Chocolate Chunk and all I can say is third times the charm. These breakfast cookies are knock your socks off delicious ! I plan on stocking up so that I don't have to order over the hot summer months (as I have read on some of the cookie reviews that because these cookies are so fresh and have no preservatives to prevent spoilage that they are prone to mold if left out to long), so I figure, why take the chance? I'm just going to make several purchases before summer gets here!!!<br /><br />I totally recommend these breakfast cookies! My only wish is that they came in a variety box so one isn't forced to purchase a whole pack to sample one flavor. Yes, they are a little high calorie, so you might not want to use them as a snack, but for a meal replacement they are fantastic ! I love the natural ingredients and I know these cookies are fresh (makes you wonder how ""fresh"" those meal replacement bars are that sit on the store shelf for months?)"
,,,,,OUTSTANDING and filling!,"Super good cookie for breakfast.  They surprisingly fill me up for a couple of hours (which for me is WONDERFUL).  I insist on eating as soon as I wake up in the morning, and this is a great way to get some whole grains and healthy stuff on the run.<br /><br />Perishable (which makes me happy) so don't stock up unless you have room in the freezer.  I keep mine in the refrigerator and so far no problems.<br /><br />My son likes them too."
,,,,,Not my favorite flavor,"I love Erin's Breakfast Cookies, but this flavor is a little to rich for me.  It gives me that funny feeling in the back of my throat."
,,,,,Morning Glory = Yummy :),"This is my first Erin Baker Breakfast Cookie experience. I put all the cookies in the freezer upon arrival. I followed the supplied helpful hint to toast the cookies on the darkest setting.  Memories of my Grandmother's winter cookies warm from the oven commenced...tasty, toasty, outside and warm soft inside. These are yummy with a tall glass of the coldest milk or a hot coffee-to-go. I would buy these again."
,,,,,Good Taste! High Calorie?,These cookies are tasty but just a little too gooey and the calorie count is 300 for one cookie--this is a bit high!
,,,,,Good quick snack or breakfast,"These aren't grandma's cookies, but tasty enough when eating healthy is what you try to do."
,,,,,FIRST TIME BUY AND WE LOVE THEM!,"I was so excited to try these.  I am trying to find economical GOOD for you food.  I ate one of these and a cup of Joe and I was full. Delicious!  Heated it 20 seconds. That of course is unfrozen.  I immediately froze the rest to keep them fresh as no preservatives in them. I think you have to heat it about 40 seconds when frozen.  My son had one (He is 21) and he had to have two to fill him.  He likes them a lot. My Mom had one and she was full.  She could not quit talking about how good they are. Another reason  I also wanted to try these is because my Mom has Alzheimers and cannot cook on stove safely anymore. She likes to snack and get things herself so these are perfect.  She can still use the microwave. I feel these are healthy eating and that makes me feel good. We all have medical disabilities so the easier the better. The really cool part is that they are just a little over a 1.00 each for breakfast! We love the Morning Glory and am fixing to order more with Amazon Prime. By the way for those of you who don't know about Prime, it is wonderful and we have saved so much on shipping this year. Also, it is quick 2 day free shipping and 3,95 for overnight.  I try to only buy products that have Prime on them. Our cookies came today (a Saturday) with Prime 2 day by Fed Ex. That is another thing I love is shipping is free with Prime on these. If you shop  a lot on Amazon (which I am doing more and more) the 70.00 is a great value for a years membership. Gotta order more cookies now! Blessings!<br /><br />UPDATE 11/7/10:  I HAVE READ COMMENTS THAT SOME PEOPLE HAD THESE GET MOULD ON THEM. PLEASE REMEMBER TO FREEZE THESE AS THEY HAVE NO PRESERVATIVES.  THERE IS A NOTE  ON WHITE PAPER FROM ERIN BAKER IN EACH PACKAGE WHICH SUGGESTS  YOU DO THIS AND WHY.  JUST HATE TO SEE ERIN GET BASHED FOR THIS WHEN IT IS NOT HER FAULT. MINE GO IN THE FREEZER AS SOON AS THEY ARRIVE. THAT WAY THEY ARE ALWAYS FRESH. STILL LOVE THESE COOKIES!<br /><br /> I AM NOW ON MONTHLY AUTOMATIC MAILING SO WE HAVE THEM EVEN IF I FORGET TO ORDER ON TIME. THAT WAY IT IS EVEN LESS EXPENSIVE. HOW CAN YOU GO WRONG? GREAT BARGAIN FOR THOSE OF US WHO HAVE TO WATCH OUR PENNIES.<br /><br />MY MOM (who has alzheimers) LOVES THEM SO MUCH I HATE TO THINK WHAT WOULD HAPPEN IF I QUIT ORDERING THEM. SHE TALKS ABOUT THEM ALL THE TIME . SHE WAS FEELING SO DOWN AS SHE CANNOT COOK MUCH AT ALL ANYMORE AND  SINCE THESE THEY ARE EASY FOR HER TO HEAT IN THE MICROWAVE, IT MAKES HER FEEL BETTER ABOUT HERSELF. THANK YOU ERIN!"
,,,,,Erin Baker Morning Glory cookie,"Another great product!  Delicious and nutritious, it makes you feel guilty that you are eating something that is actually good and good for you!"
,,,,,"Uh, it's just ""okay""","I purchased these with high hopes because I do not seem to have enough time to eat a great breakfast, but I thought this would provide sustenance 'til lunchtime; however, I was disappointed after a few bites. While the cookie is wholesome and filling, it does have a slight aftertaste.  To me it seemed like ""something"" was missing...not sure what, since there are many good ingredients, but I think I would have enjoyed apple/cinnamon much better.<br /><br />Also, I also found it disturbing that even though my cookies were not frozen (probably should have done this since they are a moist cookie) and not yet expired (January 2011), they were stored on the pantry shelf, as they are individually wrapped...but they became moldy. Yep. I just threw away three cookies because I could see mold through the package (opened one to confirm it). Yuck."
,,,,,Excellent cookies.,"Very good flavor and texture. Excellent wholesome snack. One of the best all natural oatmeal cookies I've ever tried. Plus, all natural ingredients."
,,,,,Freeze Immediately,"I especially like the chocolate cookie, but failed to freeze my cookies.  On the third day I had three molded cookies.  Word of advice -- put in the freezer within the first day or two."
,,,,,Super Value!,"Breakfast is often a hard meal to fit in, and this is a great way to get the fuel that you need in this important meal.  Tasty (even better after 20 seconds in a microwave).  We're about to reorder - these are a hit!"
,,,,,The Best Breakfast Cookies!,Gave Erin Baker's Breakfast Morning Glory Cookies as a gift and the recipient gave the cookies very high reviews! Thank you!
,,,,,A great combo of flavors,"I love the mix of flavors in this cookie.  The cookies are very moist and they are also very filling. The only thing I didn't like about these is the strong nutmeg taste.  Unfortunately, nutmeg is not my favorite spice.  I would have enjoyed more raisins but my kids are glad there aren't that many.  I love the fact that I can keep these handy for mornings when we are running late and for when we take trips.  They are easy to freeze and seem to keep rather well in the freezer."
,,,,,BREAKFAST ON THE GO,"I love this breakfast cookie! I usually have this with fruit and tea or juice for a quick breakfast, or sometimes I have it with vanilla ice cream for dessert."
,,,,,Yummy!,I love these cookies!  They are just perfect for an 'on the go' breakfast bite paired with a piece of fruit.
,,,,,"Good, quick breakfast","These cookies have good taste, ar a great quick breakfast, and are healthy.  I'll have one with a cup of coffee and I'm good for the morning."
,,,,,Even the $3.88 I spent on these was a mistake,"If I hadn't scored these during a Warehouse sell-off, I'd even more seriously fail to understand how or why anyone could justify paying over a dollar a piece for these things. Sure, the instructions are dead-on with the freeze-before-toasting method, but they have more ingredients than healthy cookies I can make at home for MUCH cheaper, and with superior texture and without the garbage. If you think these are healthy OR a good value, you've been duped."
,,,,,To Sweet!  Wrong Nutrition Info!,"I really wanted to like these, but I just found them to be to sweet/sugary.<br />I generally stay away from cliff bars for the same reason, and had hoped that these would be as good as they sound.<br /><br />Sadly its just to sweet tasting for me.<br /><br />Special note: The packs I received Oct 2010 have 20g sugar, not the 17g listed in the Amazon nutrition section.<br />There may have been a recipe change . . ."
,,,,,Yucky taste,The cookies tasted too much like baby food prunes to be any good.  Also they included directions to freeze them when they arrived to keep them from spoiling.  I would never buy these again.
,,,,,NOT KOSHER,Not Kosher!!! Ignore the Symbol!!! They are NOT Kosher and NOT certified by any company!!! I contacted the company to confirm.
,,,,,Bought based on reviews ... no more,"We picked these up based on the glowing reviews. My fault, my mistake. I believe they are WAY over-rated. Doesn't taste morning glory at all. Instead, tastes just like any one of the other in the line ... dry, stale, dense, oatmeal ""cookie,"" like a cookie experiment gone bad by a pre-teen.<br /><br />In addition, cookies arrived cracked, broken and sticking to bag, yet are dry & stale inside. What a waste. I would have never purchased these in a B&M store had I had an opportunity to examine them first."
,,,,,Not so good!,The breakfast cookie is not to my liking and I do not think I will order them in the future!
,,,,,I love Kopali Products!!!,"After purchasing <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIWUHG"">Kopali goldenberries</a>, I tried a few other Kopali snacks: <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIRCZ6"">chocolate covered cacao nibs</a> and <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIWUTE"">chocolate covered banana</a>.<br /><br />The goldenberries are the best dried fruit I have ever had. They are bursts of sweet and tangy flavor and achieve the same satisfaction as sour gummies. Grown in Columbia, goldenberries are high in antioxidants, bioflavonoids, fiber, and even contain protein. They are a great snack and are somewhat filling.<br /><br />The dark chocolate covered nibs are also good. The small package contains a lot more nibs than it seems at first. The nibs are crunchy, high in antioxidants, and a little bit bitter, but the dark chocolate balances the bitterness nicely.<br /><br /> The chocolate covered bananas were also delicious. I expected them to be crispy, but instead they were chewy and a bit zesty. Each of the Kopali Organics products is a healthy and satisfying snack. You should try them (especially the goldenberries)!"
,,,,,I am so hooked on these...,"If it wasn't for me standing in the checkout line at Whole Foods, I would have never even noticed the bag. I decided to try it out and OMG they are the best. I love that the chocolate is not an overwhelming sweetness but just enough to compliment the dried bananas. I honestly can't wait to get my hands on another bag. The only disappointment that I have is that you can't buy them at every Whole Foods."
,,,,,Two delicious foods originally combined,"Kopali's chocolate-covered bananas are amazing!  The bananas are naturally sun-dried, so they are chewy, which makes them different from most chocolate-covered bananas.  And the chocolate is vegan, gluten-free, and Fair Trade!  I couldn't ask for anything more in a food product!  I also love putting these on top of vanilla ice cream as a nice alternative to more unhealthy toppings.  Nice work, Kopali!"
,,,,,Delicious!,"Love these, buy them at whole foods all the time.....healthy pure organic and fair trade dark chocolate with yummy banana!  All the chocolates and fruits are good, but these are my favorite.  Helping the environment and small farmers all over the world too.  <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIWUTE"">Kopali Organics Organic Chocolate Covered Dried Banana, 2 Ounce Pouch (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,da bomb,"this is the best snack on the planet. every little molecule of this item is vibrating with the love that comes from growing, harvesting, making and distributing it in harmony with nature. it is soooo good. people think that just because it costs a little more than a bag of monocultured corn chips it's expensive, but in terms of the taste, of the nutrition, of the total value, it is not expensive. it's not cheap, but nothing green is, or should be."
,,,,,Great Treat - Not Too Sweet,"These bite sized banana pieces are delicious.  They are covered in dark chocolate and are chewy (the bananas are not fried or crispy and banana chips typically are).  These chocolate covered bananas are vegan, organic, and fair trade, and while they are a bit pricey (the bags are small and won't last too long because these are delicious), they are a unique treat which makes it worth purchasing.  These aren't too sweet - they have a hint of sweetness from the chocolate and banana, but are a tad bitter from the dark chocolate."
,,,,,Yummy and good for the earth,"I love Kopali's stuff. Great little snacks that are always fresh when I buy em, and good for the earth. Save the planet! Thanks Kopali!<br /><br /><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIWUTE"">Kopali Organics Organic Chocolate Covered Dried Banana, 2 Ounce Pouch (Pack of 6)</a><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001VIWV02"">Kopali Organics Organic Chocolate Covered Mulberries, 2 Ounce Pouch (Pack of 6)</a>"
,,,,,Choc. Covered Banana Snack,"I was disappointed by my first taste of Kopali Organics Chocolate Covered Dried Banana. The chocolate is waxy and the bananas too soft for me. I was expecting more crunch, a drier banana. The banana did not taste of banana to me either. I will not purchase again."
,,,,,Only got 5 packs!,"It clearly states on the description, pack of 6!  But I only got 5!  And I cannot find how to complain about this.  I don't want to return."
,,,,,Taste like plastic,"I bought these walnuts hoping they'd have a fresh, natural taste, better than the packaged nuts I find at my local grocery.  Unfortunately, the nuts I received had somehow absorbed a strong taste of plastic.  I took them out of the plastic tubs they were packed in and put them in another container I use that does not transfer odors or tastes onto the food.  Even so, after several weeks these nuts still tasted very unpleasantly of plastic."
,,,,,Great product at a great price!,I don't buy my walnuts anywhere else. These taste great and are a fantastic price. I put most of them in the freezer and pull them out as I need them in order to ensure they stay fresh since 4 tubs lasts me quite a while.
,,,,,Not a genuine Terrafina product,I purchased this product from Otto's because the offering via Amazon Prime was out of stock.  Otto's shipped me four plain tubs without Terrafina labels and sealed with a vertical X of clear packing tape rather than Terrafina's vacuum seal where the tub and the cover meet.  I called Otto's within a few days of receipt and they said they buy in bulk from Terrafina and package it themselves.  They said they were out of Terrafina labels!  Two of the tubs developed mold within a few days of my call to Otto's and I had to throw all of them out.  I am now seeking a refund from Amazon.
,,,,,GONE NUTS,"I GET THESE NUTS FOR MY CHURCH SISTER WHO DOES NOT HAVE  A COMPUTER. SHE ACTUALLY EATS THEM EVERY DAY, WHICH IS INCLUDED IN HER DIET."
,,,,,You Can't Eat Just One Package,"I think Depeche Mode said it the best ""I Just Can't Get Enough"" and that is how I feel about these crackers.  They have a WONDERFUL flavor and are low in fat and calories.  A serving size is 17 crackers.  These are a great alternative to basic potato chips, macaroni salad and/or french fries.  Great by themselves, with dip or along your favorite sandwich.  Once you open a package you will be amazed how long before you're opening another."
,,,,,Love the flavor and crunch,Great flavor and love the snap!  When your looking for something crunchy that isn't high in calories (a litle high in carbs though) these are amazing and you can have 17 crackers in a serving.  I was buying them at an natural health food store for $2.79 a package.  A much better deal for a case here on Amazon (about 1.00 less per package)
,,,,,Too much salt!,Sesmark makes a very high quality rice cracker and then proceeds to ruin it by loading it up with so much salt as to make it inedible.  USE CAUTION before buying this item since there are NO RETURNS and you might find yourself with a throw away.
,,,,,Yummy.,My entire family loves these crackers.  Great with cheese.  Delicious alone too.
,,,,,Sesmark Sesame Rice Thins,"These crackers are great, too! Again, especialy for people who can't tolerate wheat! Others like them, too!  They stay crunchy.  You save money buying by the case."
,,,,,Best crackers ever!!!!!,These crackers are very addictive! The flavor is superb and the crunch is great.
,,,,,A Great Snack Cracker!!,"These are great crackers. They have a great crunch when you bite into them,and they are loaded with a wonderful toasted sesame flavor. My husband has diabetes and we went out looking for snacks for him to eat. These have no trans fat and 17 crackers is one serving.If you need to watch your intake of fat and calories for whatever reason you know how hard it is to find snacks that are satisfying and these are just great..."
,,,,,A cracker of a cracker,"If you are gluten-free and want crackers, this is the one for you.  It is also delicious.  This is my second order of these."
,,,,,Bet you can't eat just one...,"And that's part of the problem. No, really, I can eat just a few, maybe more later.<br />These thins are not quite as thin as I'd prefer (nor am I), but make a good snack. For hors d'oeuvres, if you top them with anything moist, do a few at a time; they get soggy pretty fast."
,,,,,Like them but too salty,I buy these crackers because I need something gluten free to snack with.  But why does gluten free have to be so salty? I have to wipe the salt off to be able to eat them.  Wish the manufacturers would learn that just because we are glten free doesn't mean we can eat all that salt.  Less salt please!
,,,,,Great For a Snack,"I like these Sesame Rice Thins because they are just the thing I need to fill between meals. Especially with a bit of cheese, Philly Cheese, tasty spread and other. Great to have separated packages, because I go through one so quickly and my husband loves to munch on these all the time. I recommend these to anyone who wants a different type of snack for a party or just for one's self."
,,,,,Delicious!!,"These are great! Seriously. They kind of remind me of corn nuts. They are crunchy, light, a tiny bit salty and totally tasty. I just got them today and can't stop eating them. I very much suggest getting these. Pretty good price and so much better than the rice crackers at my local store."
,,,,,"""D""licious","Sesame Rice Thins are the BEST tasting rice crackers I have tried - and I've tried several.  They stay crispy and crunchy and come in several flavors.  You won't be disappointed.  Amazon has the best price, too!"
,,,,,Sesmark Sesame  Rice Thins,"The product is a known value to us and is fresh. The physical condition of the  product leaves something to be desired. The individual wafers are often broken up, to the extent of 30% of the contents of the package. This indicates careless packing for the rigors of package shipment. The use of a somewhat larger outside box with the air bag padding on all sides should be better for the physical care of the contents. My wife eats the thins for lunch very often with meat, cheese or fish and finds the broken ones unsatisfactory."
,,,,,gluten-free crackers,These are my favorite gluten-free crackers and they come in many flavors.  I have tried and liked most of them.
,,,,,Delicious,Crispy with the light flavor of rice and sesame.  Lightly salted.  I love these crackers.
,,,,,Excellent Rice Crackers,"As good as any in grocery stores and more reasonably priced.  But, you do have to get a carton of them."
,,,,,Awesome wheat free alternative to crackers,I have to eat a gluten free diet and these crackers are the best I have come across.  I eat them with cheese or hummus.  Very good!!
,,,,,The only crackers,"There is no other brand is comparable to this brand.  Whoever I gave the crackers to, would become addicted.  I keep order them over and over again."
,,,,,mfr skimpin on ingredients,"I ordered 2 cases as always. Rvc'd the 2 cases and the crackers were saltless, tastless. Amazon was kind to send 2 more cases and they were the same. BLAH!  I have written the masnufacturer to let them know.<br />Amazon has greta customer care."
,,,,,Heart shaped lucky bamboo,"The bamboo arrived about 2 weeks after ordering, all intact and well packed.  However, there were no instructions for caring of the bamboo.  It is now almost a month since arriving and part of the bamboo stalk looks like it is dying and turning brown (part of the heart shape).  I would buy more from this company if the shipping wasn't so costly (for the area where I live the shipping was about $10 and the product itself $15)."
,,,,,sugarless jerk seasoning,I added this to my order since I was going to be paying shipping charges anyway.  I didn't expect anything unusual.  There probably are as many jerk recipes as there are residents in Jamaica.  But this one surprised me pleasantly.  It wasn't full of sugar and added a really pleasant note to everything I cooked with it.  I will be buying it again.
,,,,,The fruits of my labor,"When chatchi's favorite afternoon treat became mysteriously unavailable in the vending machine at work, chatchi panicked.  How would chatchi get through the work day without his Chuckles -- the delicious, fat-free candy that provides you with the sweet-filled enjoyment you earn every day.<br /><br />Fortunately, Amazon carries this delicious, chewy, fruity candy, and chatchi can get back to doing his job.<br /><br />chatchi's only complaint about Chuckles is the black licorice flavor.  chatchi normally likes black licorice, but this flavor is so overpowering, chatchi needs to eat it last, so as not to ruin the remaining cherry, orange, lemon and lime flavors.<br /><br />chatchi loves Chuckles."
,,,,,AN OLD-FASHIONED CANDY...,"When I was young, nearly a half century ago, Chuckles was a very popular candy. I really enjoyed eating these jellied treats, which were dusted with granulated sugar,  as they definitely satisfied a sweet tooth. I still enjoy them on occasion, though they are not as easy to find as in the old days, having waned somewhat in popularity. My particular favorite was the cherry flavor. If they had sold an all cherry pack, I would have bought them by the ton. Luckily for me, an all cherry pack was not available.  I also enjoyed the licorice and orange flavors. Lemon and lime, however,  were the flavors that I liked least, so I would benevolently offer them to my younger sisters. I was all heart in those days."
,,,,,Old Fashioned CLASSIC,"You're crazy if you don't have a soft spot for Chuckles.  You know darn well that they were one of your favorites as a kid, and you can't resist a package (or two) even today.  I love the Cherry flavored, and wish that they would introduce a Red-only package of Chuckles (if only for a limited edition, and boy would I hold on to a few of those for posterity).  A tip for you Chuckles-lovers-- freeze 'em!  They last a lot longer that way and are well complimented by your favorite non-caloric beverage (we ladies need to watch our expanding figures, unless the stork is on the way).  God Bless Chuckles."
,,,,,Nice on a diet,"I looked around a lot for a non-water drink to have on a diet, and it was a long, gross search. This really fit the bill though, good taste, very light and didn't taste fake at all<br /><br />My advice though, is per packet disregard their instructions, use an entire pitcher of water for one packet or it is just way too potent."
,,,,,So good,"These bars are great, however, this item can be purchased for 7.49 at Sams Club.  Same box"
,,,,,Great for kids,These taste terrific and my grandkids call them candy bars and consider them a special treat!  They prefer the chocolate chip - I love the dark chocolate almond!
,,,,,Hit or Miss,"Super Bubble is my very favorite gum, and very hard to find here.  The box I received was a real hit or miss.  More than half the gum was brick hard - totally unchewable.  I've never run across this issue with this product and am very disappointed. I will take a chance and buy it again sometime in the future, but this particular purchase left a bad taste in my mouth."
,,,,,Finally,For the longest time they would not ship this to APOs. I don't know why. Maybe they were afraid the yummy super bubble gum would fall into the hands of the enemy. Get flavor and one piece works. I chew gum every day in the gym because I grind my teeth when lifting. helps alot.
,,,,,"Super Bubble is great, but box from Amazon not that great.","I've purchaesed twice so far and in both boxes the gum was really hard.  Product is great, but I wouldn't purchase again through amazon due to it being so hard to chew."
,,,,,Prompt service; fresh and delicious product,"I am addicted to Super Bubble Bubble Gum. I ordered four boxes and was very pleased with the promptness, packaging, and product."
,,,,,The best dates I ever had,"Simply the best dates I've ever had. All natural, no preservatives or sugars (surprised? Some dates have added sugars). I stopped buying any other dates once I discovered those."
,,,,,Fake saffron,"I ordered this saffron after looking at seller feedback and assumed that since this is expensive it will be premium quality.<br />But only after i put it in water for sometime, then the color of the flakes changed, and I realized that its a fake one.<br />Dont waste your time on this."
,,,,,"Great product, and no problems with delivery.","I ordered this product because i love pasta but need to start modifying my diet because i want to start fighting competitively again and need to get myself back to peak performance. I was skeptical from all the talk of ""fishy smell and taste"". Thus being the reason i ordered the single pack. I prepared them as instructed and prepared them into a soup. I used chicken breasts cut into strips, boiled them into a broth with sliced carrots, green onions, and broccoli, and then poured it into the bowl over the noodles. Me and my girlfriend tried it and it turned out great. She put some soy sauce in hers because she liked it better that way, but we both loved it. It did not have the fish smell after rinsing, nor while eating it. The texture is comparable to the rice noodles you find in Vietnamese and Japanese dishes. I am a convert to miracle noodle. I fed two people off of one pack, not bad i say. Also noticed the difference in the curving of my snack urges(didn't even touch my yogurt, orange, or nature valley peanut butter bar until near the end of my shift at work), and could wait longer before i took my lunch at work. I work 10 hour night shifts, so that's why i ate this before work. These are a great tool into any nutrition plan in my book."
,,,,,Oodles of Noodles!!,"I love pasta but I hate the stuffed feeling I get after eating it and the high carb content.  I BOOUGHT these noodles FROM AMAZON because you can get them for a GREAT PRICE and FREE SHIPPING.  Unlike other reviewers I actually read the information provided for the customer so I can make an informed purchase.  I've had these noodles in both hot and cold dishes and they are fabulous.  No carbs, no calories, and no weight gain.  HIGHLY RECOMMEND!!!!"
,,,,,Where's The Carbs and Calories?,"My daughter and I ordered these ""noodles"" from Amazon when we were on a diet.  I am diabetic, so they were doubly useful for me.  I read the reviews and found that the advice to rinse throughly and season heavily is the best way to prepare them.. I bought the angel hair and the rice.  We did not care for the rice.  I prepared the angel hair by cooking it dry in a pan with chopped onions..cook it for a good while.  I then added spaghetti sauce and cooked chicken and simmered it for some more time.  It was not like a meal at an Italian restaurant; but when you consider the caloeies and carbs being saved, it was quite palatable.  The only thing I really missed was the buttered garlic bread!  We gritted our teeth and ate another serving of the angel hair.<br /><br />Another plus; the website for the noodles has a lot of info and good advice."
,,,,,Interesting product,"I ordered these noodles after seeing them advertised on the Internet. I was a little surprised to see that the noodles were in a bag of water, but I went along cooking with them anyway. I rinsed, blanched and dried them like the package said, and put them in about half a cup of smooth tomato sauce. The noodles involved a little more chewing than I expected (and the texture is a little different), but it was enough to feed one adult such as myself and I liked that the noodles have 0 calories. I might purchase these again, perhaps when I have a better recipe to include them in, such as a soup."
,,,,,gross texture,"It did not really taste like much, so I was able to add sauce without interrupting the flavor, however I could not get past the texture. I'd rather chew on rubber bands."
,,,,,what is it really???,"I would like to try this, however I do not see anything that says exactly what this product is made of, did I miss something? They only say what it is not! Would really like to know."
,,,,,FYI- BEFORE YOU BUY Miracle Noodles PLEASE READ THIS!,"I purchased my 1st order of Miracle Noodle directly from: [...]. I got them for my Mother because she needs to switch to a diet of less carbs and far less calories overall. I purchased the 10 pack of 7oz ""Angel hair"" noodles for $21.99 w/10.89 for shipping for a total of $32.76. A few days later I received the package. I was VERY surprised to find out that each 7oz package of Miracle Noodles ACTUALLY contained OVER 6 3/4 ounces of WATER and LESS THAN 1/4 oz of Noodles!!! While their marketing material does BARELY mention Water content, they are neither CLEAR nor particularly forthcoming about this fact nor the fact that it accounts for OVER 85% of the purchase product and considering the fact that they instruct you to IMMEDIATELY RINSE the Noodles before use, it's not as if your supposed to prepare the noodle using this WATER! - Well for a couple of reasons (including but not limited to the WATER volume) I decided to return them without opening even 1 package so they were COMPLETELY UNUSED). I was instructed (during a PHONE CALL to their main office) to MAIL THEM BACK  (AT MY EXPENSE) and WAS TOLD THAT I WOULD RECEIVE A FULL REFUND. Well it cost me approx another $10 to ship them back (due to the WATER WEIGHT)and a few days later I received a refund of $21.99. I PAID SHIPPING BOTH WAYS!!! So BASICALLY I PAID $20 in shipping to get a $22 so called REFUND - I PAID $42.00 and GOT BACK ONLY $21.99 !!! This may be legal but it is UNETHICAL and WRONG and when I spoke to the rep on the phone this was never mentioned! Especially for a company that claims to STAND BEHIND IT's PRODUCT 100%!!! When I contacted them by email they informed me that ""THIS IS OUR POLICY"" and cited the requisite schpeal on their website. I was NOT informed of this ON THE PHONE CALL at all! This so-called POLICY should be CHANGED! It may be legal but it's hardly ETHICAL or RIGHT! When is OK to get back ONLY HALF of what you spend when you return a product? IT'S NOT!! Not to MENTION THE FACT that YOU're getting LESS THAN 1/4 oz of Noodle in a 7 OZ ""Package!!! RIDICULOUS!! Oh and to make matters worse: When I COMMENTED on their Shipping Policy and Water Weight on their FACEBOOK Fan page; instead of addressing the issues OPENLY, HONESTLY and DIRECTLY they IMMEDIATELY and REPEATEDLY DELETED my COMMENTS and then BLOCKED ME from making comments at all! What's that tell you???"
,,,,,mango ceylon tea,"this is a delicious tea, light and sweet with no aftertaste.  I highly recommend it to any tea drinkers who want a black tea, but one that is not too strong or bitter.  Needs no additional sweetening."
,,,,,Desert in a bottle,I love this stuff.  I tried it earlier this summer while on Cape Cod and immediately had to go find some upon returning home!  It is like drinking chocolate!  It is dutch chocolate mixed with red wine.  mmmm.  New fave!
,,,,,Unhappy in Virginia,"The shipment was Prime but arrived in 5 days instead of 2.<br />I love dark french roast coffee, but, this coffee tasted burnt and additionally, the flavor had overtones of trash Indonesian.  Not a pleasant experience."
,,,,,Finely ground and rich in flavor,I am a coffee fiend and this was surprisingly good for the price.  I accidently bought the ground instead of the bean but it was very fresh and more of an espresso grind.
,,,,,never delivered,"this is not a review of the product, but the seller/shipper. I ordered this on september 22nd. It is now october 9th and I still have not received the item."
,,,,,nice starter kit,"This is a pretty nice starter kit for the price.  My only complaint would be the light damage done to my tree by the display box that it was obviously in for too long.  But just a few months later, and my bonsai is doing just great now!  There is new green growth on the old damaged branches, which is nice.  Still, overall a good deal for the price.  Would make a great gift!<br /><br />Ok, it's been 5 months now, and the tree is doing absolutely great!!  I woudn't worry AT ALL about how I said it came in the box... very strong and dependable tree regardless.  I'm VERY pleased with this tree, and it's now been moved to a bigger pot as it's doing so well!!  By far my FAVORITE of my 8 different bonsai trees ordered online!!<br /><br />Almost a year now, and still growing strong!  I've had three other bonsai plants die from different companies, but this one continues to thrive!  I'm now using the small pot it originally came in for another bonsai.. yes the pot it comes with is small, but it's very durable and great for starting small bonsai or other plants.  I'd still strongly recommend this starter kit to anyone interested in starting the art of bonsai.. and even for experienced growers.  It's such a wonderful kit.  The tree is healthy, the pot is durable, and the soil works great!"
,,,,,Excellent Beginner kit!,I bought one of these kits from the Epcot Center Down in Disney World last fall. Right now my tree is doing great! I was able to keep it alive indoors all winter. I potted it recently and now it is outside and is really happy:-) I think this kit is really good for somebody who is interested in bonsia and is just starting out! The tree that is included is really nice and you get all the supplies to get you going on the right path. Awesome!!!!! :-)
,,,,,Great product,It arrived in great condition. It was a gift for my 13 year old son. It already has lots of new baby green leaves on it. Excellant product and great price.
,,,,,Fun with Bonsai,"When trying to find a descent Bonsai that was relatively inexpensive, I happened upon this little kit. When it arrived the plant was in great shape and nothing was broken or missing. The only thing I am doing different is using sphagnum moss instead of soil. If this kit is for a gift or just for you, It is a good choice."
,,,,,Perfect little tree!,I've never had a bonsai before and was unsure where to go. I purchased the Japanese Juniper starter kit and when it arrived I was thrilled. Everything I needed was there and the instructions are very clear. The tree is very healthy and never showed any signs of stress. Thank You Eve's Garden!
,,,,,Great Bonsai Starter,"Ordered for my daughter who loves Bonsai trees. Arrived in good condition and she had fun potting it.  Just received it so will have to wait and see what the survival rate is, but so far so good."
,,,,,Disappointment,"The juniper plant I received died within a month of planting.<br />After I did some research, I found that it does the best outside of the home, which Eve's Garden failed to mention in the product instructions.<br />I gave it one star because it shipped well and was fun while it lasted. I will not be getting anything from this manufacturer again."
,,,,,Starter Kit,"The tree I received in the kit is beautiful, although getting it into the pot was difficult as the roots were wrapped all around the inside of the grow pot. also the drainage hole in the bottom was either too big or the gravel was too small because the ""drainage layer"" was hard to get in, the gravel kept falling through the hole."
,,,,,Bonsai made easy for Westerners,"I ordered the Bonsai Tree Startere Kit and have been very pleasantly satisfied. I was initially a little suspicious about ordering a live tree to be delivered by mail, but thought that for the price and my interest level, it was worth the risk. I am glad that I took the risk. The tree arrived in great shape and the directions for transplanting and caring for it were very easy to follow and clear. My little bonsai tree has made a very nice addition to my home alter, where I keep it for daily meditation. I would encourage anyone with an interest in bonsai but without the skill set to start on your own to consider this product. This makes a very easy entry into Bonsai, which was, at least for me, a little intimidating."
,,,,,Bonsai!,Ive had my bonsai for about 3 days now. I love it! I was a little upset at first because this product wasn't eligible for prime but despite that the plant still arrived in 2 days after shipment. Everything was in place and the plant was lively and not damaged. Came with easy to follow instructions and guide. Would definitely recommend for the price.
,,,,,Bonsai Starter Kit,Product was in good condition and met all my expectations.  The Bonsai was healthy and in excellent shape.  Potting was easy with instructions provided. My tree is doing very well. I would buy from here again.
,,,,,Bonsai,This is a great intro to Bonsai for beginners.  Product arrived in excellent condition.  Nice packaging. Quality product.  I placed a second order from Eve's Garden immediately folowing this one.
,,,,,"Wow, Fantastic!","I got my Bonsai tree a day before the said date. It seems a bit roughed up because the accessories inside seemed to have got disorientated inside the box but nonetheless, all is there and intact. It seems of good quality also, thanks! :)"
,,,,,Bonsai,"For starters, the tree came surprisingly fast and looked beautiful. It came in perfect condition. The only reason I didn't give it five stars is that unfortunately, they did not send the ceramic pot. We live in Missouri and it was already 3:15 so we were not able to call. I will update when I call. I'm not saying it's a bad product, it's great! It's just that they made a tiny mistake. If you're looking for a good starter kit, this is it!"
,,,,,Deceiving product picture,The Bonzai I ordered came well before the estimated date...<br /><br />however... the tree I got as a gift was TINY. Nothing like it looks like in the product picture.
,,,,,Mwahahahaha!,"Ahhh...can you say ""Good Times!""? I am a big fan of jelly beans and these are now my favorite, perfect mix of flavors (good and...mysterious). I like to put them out in a little bowl, just randomly, before any company comes over...what's more enticing than a nice bowl full of bright jelly beans sitting out, ripe for the picking! That is until your unsuspecting guests ""roll the dice"", grab a few and perhaps ""enjoy"" some toothpaste & pencil shavings!!"
,,,,,So much better than Bertie Bots!,"So if you have ever bought Bertie Bots you know you get almost nothing for the price.  But I love these flavors so much that I kept searching until I stumbled onto Weasley Wizard Beans and I was VERY happy I did.<br /><br />Like the other reviewer it is quite fun to leave these out for kids and see the expression on their face when they get a gross flavor, but actually some strange ones are actually good, like grass and soap if you ask me."
,,,,,EEEWWWW,"These flavors are so realistic! The rotten egg and sprout flavors almost made me vomit! now when i think of the rotten egg, i feel dizzy. The cake, roasted marshmallow, and cherry ones are SO good though! i would recomand this to anyone!<br />P.S. try the black ones!"
,,,,,Good diet cereal,"This is a good high fiber breakfast cereal with a high protein content.  It does contain some sodium, but has a good potassium/sodium ratio.  It has some sugar content (evaporated cane juice) and a good flavor.  It generally is found in health food sections of larger supermarkets or in health food stores, and is now available on the Internet.  My main complaint is that retailers do not generally carry the hot cereal equivalent (which I managed to get my friend Lisa to carry in her health food store)."
,,,,,The best cereal in terms of nutrition,"If you are looking for proper nutrition cereal. This one is the best, period.  Low sugar and calorie. High fiber and protein.  What more can one ask for.  Add low fat milk and some frozen fruit and you have a perfect breakfast.  I wish I could buy it in bulk."
,,,,,"Filling, good taste and nutritious","This has recently become my staple breakfast cereal. After trying many high on taste low on nutrition cereals, I decided to find one that fits my needs. I am a regular at the gym so I have to watch what I eat. This one is not only high in protein and fiber, but also tastes much better that the other similar cereals with high fiber.<br />It can easily become addictive as it has the right balance between taste and nutrition.<br />The price is affordable too and the product can be easily found in grocery stores."
,,,,,Terrific cereal,"You won't believe how good this ""health food"" cereal tastes! Not only is it loaded with protein and low in sugar, it has a fabulous crunch that doesn't get soggy. And it's sweet but not too much so. I just bought another six boxes today, because my kids keep eating it up. Highly recommended!"
,,,,,Fabulous,"This is the best cereal!  It's my favorite by far. It has a good flavor and an excellent crunch.  It's high in whole grains (9 different grains!) and protein.  It's good in milk or in yogurt.  It's also good as an ice cream topping.  My kids just call it ""crunchies.""  As in, ""Mommy put crunchies in my yogurt.""  Try grinding it in the blender and mixing the crumbs with natural peanut butter and honey.  Make into balls and serve--great for a snack for adults or kids."
,,,,,Italian Sausage Success,"This is a great blend for Italian Sausage. It makes a mild sausage with a little kick. It does 50 lbs of sausage and I make it in 10 lb batches. I measured the level of the blend(5"") and with a permanent marker made lines every inch on the container for my 10 lbs of meat. I ground up my shoulders, mixed in the spices, then reground a second time. Some of the best sausage I have ever had. Tastes like NY style sausage with the fennel in it. I would recommend to anyone who is looking to save money on sausage. I estimated I have about 1.75 a pound into it where store bought is over 3.50 a pound. It is also very healthy. I will be purchasing other blends in the future to also try."
,,,,,takes a special person,so i tried the garlic one and i made a mistake.... and didn't wear a gas mask when i used it ... i LOVE garlic but wow this is over powering in powder form when i first got it i opened it up to give it a smell and almost fell over it was like i got mased eyes tearing up nose burning regardless i bought it im trying it and i mix up some sausage and if you add water like it says it gets toned down so you can work with it after stuffing it and letting it sit for 24hrs for the casing to firm up i grilled them and im not impressed its not bad like someone just dumped a bunch of garlic powder in my sausage and no other spices i feel like it needs more flavor then JUST garlic powder i mean even salt and pepper would be nice
,,,,,Mild/Hot Italian Sausage seasoning,"We followed the directions closely for a 10 lb. mix of 1/2 venison and 1/2 pork. (We did mix the seasoning directly into the meat, then added a bit of water.) We then let it sit overnight in the refrigerator.  We fried some patties up the next morning to taste test.<br /><br />The pepper seasoning came through, not excessively so, but it did linger a bit.  I have been known to like things hot (although my tastes have mellowed with age) and I would rate this between mild and medium.  I have tasted commercially prepared breakfast sausage that tasted hotter.  It definitely makes this a great sausage for using in spaghetti and other italian dishes.  By itself, the sausage is very flavorable.  We plan to pack 1/2 into casings and bulk store the rest for cooking Italian dishes.<br /><br />I do agree with one reviewer, it is a bit salty tasting and could be toned down a bit.  But, it is within the limits for a spicy sausage and will be fine used in other Italian recipes, IMHO.<br /><br />I would buy this again, but back off of the amount to mix into the meat (due to the salt) and add other Italian seasonings."
,,,,,Very good seasoning,"This some good sausage seasoning, has a great garlic taste, I use half the recommended seasoning on a 10lb mix and its just right for me. Great product"
,,,,,way too salty,I know others like salt more than I do but I am not on a salt free diet or anything like that.  I love sausage but this was way too salty for my taste.
,,,,,Good sardines!  But Ignorant Reviewers!,"This is the only brand I've been able to buy from any market that uses EXTRA VIRGIN Olive Oil. Most brands use cheaper non-virgin olive oil.<br /><br />I use a can of this stuff over leafy green salad and throw in a few cherry tomatoes. Shake it up and you have delicious high protein salad with no need for saturated fat/carb stuffed dressings.<br /><br />As for the other reviewers, they are entitled to their opinions, but I need to throw out a bit of education: The reason that these Sardines are not processed in the United States is because THERE ARE NO MORE SARDINE processors in the United States. The last one was in Maine and it closed down in 2010 - this was big news already. The reasons for this are multiple: California's Sardine processing crashed after overfishing of California Sardines ruined the industry in CA for a while. The cost of buying American processed Sardines was too high of a price for Americans, who simply opted to buy the stuff processed in Morocco and Portugal.<br /><br />Blaming this particular company for sending off the fish to Vietnam is misplaced criticism. Blame yourselves for not buying American to save money only to complain about it later.<br /><br />Seriously people."
,,,,,I'm an official lover of Sardines,"A good range of reviews here. I especially like the one that seeks to educate. That is unfortunate there are no more canneries here in the States.<br /><br />Here's my reality:<br /><br />I believe this company is out to put out quality products. And if your really concerned about their business practice do some due diligence. They have a website.<br /><br />I stopped for years eating anything out of a can. And for a single person I can't afford buying wild fish in bulk. I love the fact that this company puts out this product. Being of a Pacific Island decent (born and raised in the U.S  and proud to buy american) the food my ethnic community eats is a horrible combination with all that msg and salt. Not all asians eat vegetables. Particularly Filipino's. They fry everything and eat too much bread. It's the spanish influence. I respect their dietary choices but it didn't work for me.<br /><br />About 10 years ago I gradually shifted my health. I believe in moderation. And I do research the companies I buy from. I've never considered sardines. Then I tried the Sardines in Olive Oil and I am hooked.<br /><br />I study the health benefits of all things. I've been doing it for 10 years now. I study psychology and do yoga.<br /><br />Health first comes from your mind. It comes down to testing and learning what your body likes. It doesn't help to scare people into health. It doesn't work in the long run. I've met health freaks that worry so much about the negatives that it physiologically affects their health. There is such thing as too much information. You have to enjoy what you eat. Simple.<br /><br />I eat this stuff out of the can. The flavor is fantastic. It's great with some brown rice and veggies. I haven't quite made the transition to totally raw and I don't think I ever will but this is the next best thing.<br /><br />Price is not comparable to the price of your health. Most don't know how to measure that. The way I watch people waste their money on things like eating out, booze and claim they save money to buy one dollar microwaveable meals doesn't compare. Those ""frugal"" individuals suffer long term when they get older. They are the same people that poke fun at folks like me who take supplements and do yoga. I see a long term investment that most people tend to neglect: YOUR BODY! Your health needs to balance on ALL levels: mind and body. That's when you reap the benefits.<br /><br />If you want great healthy food for an affordable price and still support the planet, then support this company. Your body in the long run will thank you for it."
,,,,,Best tasting sardines,"Sustainably caught off the California Coast, packaged as disclosed in a previous review. I feel a tad guilty buying 10 at at time at the local co-op but they are simply the best tasting sardines, distinctive and flavorful. You know you are buying premium product compared to the plethora of sardine purveyors out there: Nordic, Portugal, Mediterranean, etc...The cool waters off the California are well known for sardines"
,,,,,Wow! Some of the meatiest Sardines we have ever eaten.,"These are some of the best tasting sardines we have ever had and the size is very impressive. There are about four large taste sardines per can.  I was lucky to get these from Amazon when they had them in stock it they came quickly and the the use by date is two years away, not that they will last that long as they are so good just right out of the can that we nearly eaten up our order. The sardines are caught off of California, but processed elsewhere just in case your wondering but as another reviewer noted try finding a processor in the US is almost impossible, even here in the Monterey Bay.  In closing great sardines, but wait till Amazon has them in stock for a great price."
,,,,,Best Sardine I've had.,Sardines used to gross me out but these aren't mushy or too stinky like some sardines you can get. I like how neatly packed they are in their little can. I just throw some hotsauce on em and chow down. These are my favorite by far and told my grandfather about them.<br /><br />The other reviews say more about the reviewers than the product.
,,,,,Excellent Sardines.,"For lunch today, I had a can of ""Wild Planet"" wild sardines packed in Extra Virgin olive oil. I served them over a bowl of brown rice and I pored much of the olive oil onto the mixture. For a bit of flavoring, I added a small amount of Mae Ploy sweet chili sauce, an Asian treat from Thailand. Good lunch. Good mix of nutritional ingredients. Excellent sardines, by the way. Really good tasting.<br /><br />Gary Peterson"
,,,,,Tasty Sardines!,Just had a can of these and wanted to confirm the great quality of this product. Excellent taste and three big sardines barely fitting into the can. I'll get more ...
,,,,,Deconstructing Environmental Cred,"There's nothing really wrong with these sardines, though as noted below I don't particularly care for their smoky taste. My problem is with the marketing, which attempts to justify an inflated price with a dissertation of a long list of purported benefits. Problem is, most if not all of these benefits apply to all brands of sardines, not just these.<br /><br />One thing I'll say at the outset: If BPA free packaging is your most important purchase criterion read no further and buy these now. The packaging is indeed BPA free.<br /><br />But what about the whole concept of ""wild"" sardines? I'm not aware that the sardine has been domesticated, and the lowly pilchards that swarm the seas in massive schools sometimes visible from outer space are not amenable to aquaculture.<br /><br />On the other hand, qualifying these sardines as wild, notwithstanding the fact that all sardines are wild, does confer a seemingly significant though clearly misplaced credibility. No doubt this will boost sales to a gullible buying public.<br /><br />Read the packaging for these sardines and you can't help but feel you're saving Mother Earth as you chomp on your sandwich. But digging down beneath the surface, there's not so much to be excited about.<br /><br />For instance there's the matter of what happens to these fish after they're ""sustainably caught along the California coast"". The small print provides a clue in that these bad boys are ""processed in Viet Nam"". So what's really going on is that our diminutive sardines take on a heavy carbon footprint, travelling as they do from the west coast to the far east and back again, presumably to harvest the otherwise mutually exclusive benefits of buy-local chic and low labor costs. Nonetheless, we read that, ""These sardines are considered a `Best Choice for Sustainability' by a consensus of environmental organizations"".<br /><br />There are other issues as well.<br /><br />The health benefits of chowing down on this product are highly touted. For instance, ""Ounce for ounce, Wild Planet sardines provide 3 times more calcium and phosphorus than milk..."". OK, fair enough. But is this, as implied, unique to the Wild Planet variety only, or is it once again a characteristic of all sardines? Unfortunately, it's the latter.<br /><br />We also learn that these ""delicious meaty portions"" are ""cleaned and scaled"". Buyer beware: this is quite different from ""skinless and boneless"". ""Cleaned"" in this context must mean something other that what is commonly expected by the use of this word in conjunction with fish. Be prepared to either eat the vertebral column and various entrails, or to remove (clean) them yourself.<br /><br />How do they taste?<br /><br />Not bad, if you're into schmaltz herring. These babies are smoked and have a characteristic smoky, salty taste.<br /><br />But don't worry. It's not just any smoke, but ""aqueous natural smoke"" that they're treated with..."
,,,,,Great Tasting But Disappointed They're Packed in Vietnam,"I recently found Wild Planet and purchased both the Wild Sardines and their Tuna.  The taste is amazing in both the sardines and tuna.  It simply can't be beaten and, they use BPA free cans which is very rare in this country.  Thanks to another review on Amazon, I discovered that many of the canned goods I was buying for my family that were organic, were also packed in cans coated in a lining that includes BPA.  I did some research and discovered Wild Planet.  Their tuna and sardines are more expensive but it's worth it because all of their products are sustainably caught, and packaged responsibly.  They're good for our planet and great for my family.  The only reason I'm not rating them 5 stars is because the sardines are processed in Vietnam and not the US.  The tuna is processed here. The sardines are not, and while I'm sure the canneries used are monitored by Wild Planet, I would much rather serve my family something that was packaged in this country giving fellow Americans much needed jobs.  I also think that with the price of the sardines, they should be packaged here.<br /><br />Anyway, if taste is your only concern, buy these sardines.  They're the best I've tasted.  If you care where your food is processed, these might not be for you--altho, no sardines are processed in this country anymore so I guess we're just out of luck. For some reason, we Americans don't seem to care that we now make very little in our own country.  Go figure."
,,,,,Gross chemical stew,"The taste is bitter, the smell is atrocious, and they are not naturally smoked.  ""Aqueous natural smoke"" is a chemical stew injected into the fish.  For anyone thinking these are the real thing, all I can say is 'there is a sucker born every minute.'"
,,,,,totally Over-rated!,"These sardines are okay, nothing more.  Don't fall for it.  At $2.82 a tin plus shipping, the Bela Sardine from Portugal blows these out of the water.  You can purchase Belas for $2.45 a tin and maybe less if you find them sold in bulk.  What am I going to do with 11 more tins of a so-so sardine.  Ugh!"
,,,,,Threw them out.,"I adore sardines.  I'm used to the Bela brand, but decided to try these for variety's sake.  I opened up a can and it smelled like nasty cat food.  I tasted them anyway, but was totally grossed out.  In the trash it went.  Stick with Bela, super clean flavor, fresh and better sourced.  Totally different food product.  Try them with Siracha."
,,,,,Turkish Tea,"I ordered this after returning from Turkey where they served this to the tourists (me) who were shopping in their stores. Not a traditional Turkish drink - one developed to keep the tourists going (high in sugar) and happy. It worked while I was there, I bought a lot. Chocolate and Art Lover"
,,,,,sour apple tea,Great tea just like in Turkey.Easy to mix and prepare. My wife thinks it's a little sweet. I love it
,,,,,Sugar! Nothing more! Not tea whatsoever!,"Ingredient list: Sugar, Acidity Regulator (including miscellaneous chemicals). No tea whatsoever. $22 for 18 oz. (500g) of sugar with apple flavor. Most expensive sugar in the market!! Health benefit? None! It comes in a square tin with plastic bag inside containing granulated sugar. That's all. Nothing more."
,,,,,Unfortunate mistake,I ordered two of the Hazer Baa Turkish Apple Tea (pack of 2) as pictured so I would save on the shipping and instead received the Green Apple Tea (same brand and price).  It didn't taste like the original but I didn't want the hassle of sending it back and so I will not be ordering it again.  This tea did not have the strength or zing of the original.  I'm upset still.
,,,,,Yummy!,These arrived nice and fresh. They are a tad more tart than expected but I like them.
,,,,,Great flavor!,Very good fruit slices.  The flavor is tart-not too sweet and has a dusting of sugar.  Very good when left out to get a little more solid-not so gel like!
,,,,,Superior fruit slices,"I bought cherry, lime and lemon flavors...all are wonderful. Not too hard and not too soft and with a perfect amount of sugar on them. I'll be back for more soon!"
,,,,,Fun for kids!,I bought several of these as a birthday party goody bag filler. This is basically ice cream flavored pop rocks but all of the kids loved them and is a very reasonable price.
,,,,,my dogs favorite,we pace the floor when stewed chicken is not available.  This is baby dogs favorite food mixed with chef michaels dry chicken kibble.  He loves this to distraction.  Never seems to get tired of it.
,,,,,Best decaf I've tried so far,"Based on the reviews here, the price, and the fair trade aspect; I decided to give this coffee a try. I was very pleased with both the aroma and flavor: rich, complex, reminding me a bit of mocha though no actual chocolate flavor. Highly recommended for anyone who likes a rich cup of coffee without the caffeine."
,,,,,"Dark, Rich, Clear Decaf!","I would have tried this coffee because it is from one of the most beautiful places on earth, the crisp, clear mountains of British Columbia.  This coffee is the best decaf I have ever tasted.  Often decaf tastes like it has a chemical aftertaste, (and some use chemicals in the processing), and some just lack that full bodied flavor.  This one which has its caffeine extracted with mountain water is the richest, most satisfying decafs ever.  You'll also feel great about yourself since it is fair trade. Their fully caffed versions are amazing too.  I became such a loyal customer after coming across their coffee visiting Canada, that we order this by the double bag and have it shipped from Amazon."
,,,,,Full-Flavored Brew,"This coffee has a full, rich flavor, exactly what a dark roast should taste like. Swiss-water process decaf is a must for me."
,,,,,Great Whole Bean Decaf,"This would be a 5 star product, but it is incredibly expensive... About $15.00 a pound...  We are still looking for a reasonable priced whole bean decaf product.  If it came in a sealable really airtight container, maybe would be worth the money, but it's just a bag with tape...  For $30, throw in a canister at least."
,,,,,Great start to the Day!,This is the best decaf around and it is Free Trade too.  We first found it when we were spending a week near Invermere and were thrilled to find it on Amazon.
,,,,,"Finally, a decaf I can enjoy after trying almost all of them.","I am insistent that if I drink decaf, it has to be SWISS WATER PROCESSED.  All other decaf is just absolutely bad for you.  If you are going to buy organic and fair-trade, buy swiss water processed also!<br /><br />I tried a few others and couldn't stand them.  I tried Jeremiah's Pick brand and couldn't stand it.  But it tasted like maybe they had exhaust fumes on them so maybe I got a bad shipment  I also tried Newman's Owns and a few others.  I was really hesitant to buy two pounds of this only to end up giving it away.<br /><br />I am happy to say I like it.  I only wish it was a medium roast as I prefer light and medium over dark. I'll look at their other stuff."
,,,,,Kicking decaf!,"Most, if not all coffee drinkers would agree that decaf coffee just doesn't taste as good as caffeinated. Great caffeinated beans (whatever ""great"" means to the drinker) are pretty easy to find. But when it comes to decaf, pickin's get VERY slim.<br /><br />Kicking Horse is the best decaf for me. It's an even, very dark (consider it a french) roast and it's oily! (The whole ""oily vs. not oily"" is a never-ending debate.) Suffice to say, I prefer dark, oily beans and it's impossible to find oily decaf from a mass-production roaster.<br /><br />Admittedly, I have not performed a side-by-side comparison with caffeinated, but straight shots are remarkable. Few people would recognize that they were drinking decaf if they were served this coffee. (espresso or press, i can't speak to the taste of this coffee after drip)<br /><br />To qualify any opinion, it's important to understand the perspective of the reviewer. I don't evaluate coffee for qualities like ""florals"" or ""dark chocolate"" or ""berries"". I like rich espresso flavor, but without so much caffeine. So I cut my coffee with a dark decaf in order to get the richness that I want, and then smooth it with a little milk/cream - no sweetener, no flavorings.<br /><br />As an added bonus, I really appreciate the 15% discount for the monthly automated Amazon subscription."
,,,,,Delicious coffee to your door!,"I've been ordering the Kicking Horse decaf, along with the Three Sisters regular blend, for over a year now - it's great coffee, and arrives fresh and fast.  Much better deal than buying the little 12 oz bags in coffee shops!"
,,,,,"Good, not great","This is a really dark roast coffee which I usually like.  It has a bite to it but the bold/complex flavors and aroma weren't quite there by my taste.  I tried it in a coffee press, drip and a steam coffee machine that we have at the office but couldn't find that sweet spot that would make it work for me.  I'm a little bias because I picked up <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001EO5PB0"">Jeremiah's Pick Coffee Colombia Supremo Decaf Whole Bean Coffee, 10-Ounce Bags (Pack of 3)</a> at about the same time to compare and absolutely love Jeremiah's."
,,,,,"Excellent product, excellent process!","We love French roast coffee and my husband must drink decaffeinated coffee.  His doctor recommends against all the standard variety decaf coffees as the caffeine is removed by a chemical process which the doctor does not like for long term health reasons.<br /><br />We discovered this ""Swiss process"" coffee in Canada last summer, bought it and loved it.  The taste is excellent for all those who love French roast coffee and one cannot guess it is decaffeinated.  We searched the internet for Swiss process decaf coffees and were delighted to find the Kicking Horse decaf on the Amazon site.  All our friends who have had it have enjoyed it as well.<br /><br />We have signed up for the procedure of having it shipped to us automatically once a month, and even save money doing so.  The price is right for this excellent product.<br /><br />We highly recommend it to all!"
,,,,,Tasty for Decaf!,I love this coffee!  It has very good flavor for decaf.  I have been looking for a good decaf coffee because i've been trying to give up caffeine - and this is the best one I have found so far.
,,,,,Great tasting coffee,"I looked a long time for dark roast decaf that tasted like this one does.The package doesn't say where it is grown, but it tastes like Columbian beans to me. I hope Amazon keeps handling it. GREAT COFFEE, Gerald"
,,,,,Great Java!,"First time user, but will order more!  The decaf is Swiss Water filtered, no chemicals, and we just discovered they offer 1/2 decaf, 1/2 regular coffee so you get the jolt, but not as much, which may be a great compromise, also dark roast!"
,,,,,Coffee,"The coffee was great or is great ,but the bag said not for resale . I'm not sure where the seller got it . The bag was sealed and never opened.Which I was greatfull."
,,,,,Great base!,"I was a huge fan of PDQ eggnog crystals and was sad when this product quit being produced. I happened upon this product and I'm so glad I took a chance. At first I made just one glassful and enjoyed it but something was missing and some of the crystals did not completely dissolve. I decided to make a half gallon of 1% organic milk in it's carton while adding nutmeg, cinnamon, and 2 tsp. of organic vanilla. I let it refrigerate over night and what a difference. Now it tastes more like real eggnog and is such an inexpensive easy to make year round treat. So today I will order another 9 pack or maybe 2 since one never knows how long a product will be stocked. Also AMZN definitively has the BEST price as other charge three dollars for ONE container. ENJOY!"
,,,,,Love this stuff!,"I was never an eggnog fan until I tried this in a gourmet shop. Loved it. Sent my aunt who loves eggnog some and she loved it and requested more. The shop that I found it at sells out all the time. Obviously good stuff!  I never had problems opening container or with it not dissolving well,"
,,,,,Aspen Mulling Eggnog Mix,"Aspen Mulling eggnog mix does not taste exactly like real eggnog, but pretty darn close. It is a bit sweeter and not as rich as real eggnog, unless you mix with cream and milk (the manufacturer recommends mixing with milk). I add a touch of vanilla and nutmeg to the mix, and use it to make eggnog lattes. Delicious, and now I enjoy eggnog lattes year-round. I find that I can make an eggnog latte using this product that tastes more like eggnog than using real eggnog. When mixed with fat free half and half, you can enjoy the taste of eggnog with no cholesterol, no fat, and low carbohydrates. If you mix with regular half-and-half, even creamier. When mixing, let it stand for 10 to 15 minutes before using. No need to mix and let stand overnight, tends to separate out if left sitting overnight."
,,,,,season alternative nog,"Tis the SEason is over, no more cartons of eggnog, but this is a good substitute<br />thick rich and a taste thats as good as most traditional nogs."
,,,,,This stuffis the Bomb!!!!!,"If you are like me,and are lactose intolerant, then this stuff is the only way to enjoy the taste of eggnog!I mix one tablespoon with a glass of rice dream milk and I get my eggnog fix without the gastric disturbance of real eggnog!It tastes just like the real thing!I will be buying this product as long as it is available!!!!!"
,,,,,Pretty Close,I suppose it's about as close as you can get to mass produced (real) egg nog. It is pretty convenient too.
,,,,,Addiction,"Great taste, inexpensive and easy to store with no going sour. No cholesterol to worry about. The shipping was speedy. Satisfactory transaction. Would purchase this brand again. Would also purchase from Amazon unless they allow pedophiles to sell books again."
,,,,,"YUMMMMMMMY!  Finally, great eggnog year round!","Wish I could get this on auto-ship.  Wonderful product, wonderful flavor and wonderful to be able to have it whenever we want!!!"
,,,,,A bit weak in flavor,"I really like eggnog, especially with brandy. While the ones with brandy already in them are very good, I wanted to try this product when eggnog is usually out of season.<br /><br />My experience with adding brandy to real eggnog does not create the same taste as the premixed variety. This product does not improve upon this experience.  Using a milk frother, I poured the mixture into a cup of 2% milk with about an ounce of brandy, and found that I needed about twice as much of the recommended amount of the Aspen mixture to get any eggnog flavor. The mixture will thicken in a few minutes, but the eggnog flavor is mainly sweet to me.<br /><br />However, I must mention that I have no sense of smell, and therefore my experience with this product may have been largely due to my condition."
,,,,,not eggnog,"The eggnog was NOT eggnog - they should try another name, as this is misleading.  The cartons are REALLY DIFFICULT to open - I use a screwdriver."
,,,,,Fresh smell and taste,Got a smaller size than 3 pound pack from Fisherman's Fleet; put in the freezer. Defrosted today and opened the bag. Sweet and fresh! No rancid fishy smell. Was very nice baked.
,,,,,Yum!!,These macarons were beautifully packaged and tasted just as good as they looked! I think my favorite flavors were Dark Chocolate Raspberry and Coconut. Mostly likely will order more next time.
,,,,,Delicious Macarons,"Leila has a whole collection of beautiful pastries that are absolutely delicious.The cookies she creates can be custom designed to fit your personal needs for any occasion.Her packaging is simply divine and so very beautiful.She takes such pride in every detail to satisfy each and every customer individualy.I will use her for all my special party and personal gift needs.I know i can count on her 100% to make every purchase extra special.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00487MXS8"">Leilalove Gluten Free Cookies, ** 8 ** Macarons six flavors. We already gift wrapped it for you!</a><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004884GRI"">Leilalove Macaron **4** four Flavores, gluten free,Green brown presentation box</a><a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0047VLDD6"">Leilalove Macarons** 12 ** Quantity , Eight All Natural Flavors, Gluten Free, Baked to Order</a>"
,,,,,Made in China treats still KILLING dogs - ABC NEWS 2012!,"Yes, dogs love these treats but educate yourself before you buy any dog treats made in china.<br /><br />Per ABC News;<br />Just six months after issuing its latest warning about chicken jerky dog treats made in China, the Food and Drug Administration confirms it has logged more than 900 complaints from pet owners who say their dogs either were sickened or died after eating the treats.<br /><br />The number of complaints has nearly doubled since the story was first reported by ABC News in March. The FDA says its investigation is ongoing and that it continues to test samples of the popular treats, which dog owners across the country say have caused kidney failure in their pets, resulting in severe illness or death.<br /><br />[...]"
,,,,,A Treat My Dog Loves,"Happy Hips are one of my little monster's favorite treats.  She is a very finicky eater but she will obey and be sweet for a chance at these chip like treats.<br /><br />This product was recommended to me by another dog owner as a healthy treat because it contains no fillers, byproducts, antibiotics, or added hormones. It also has vitamins and minerals to maintain healthy joints, which for a French Bulldog that has problems with hips and joints, is a plus.  I feel better about giving the little critter a healthy treat instead of the garbage contained in brand name treats on the market.<br /><br />One huge red flag is they are made in China, which certainly gives me pause, but I will keep buying them.<br />I have only tried the beef liver variety and will stick with it since my little creature likes them so much."
,,,,,Three out of Three Dogs plus one Cat love these,"I have been buying these chicken jerky treats every month via Amazon's subscription for the past six months and the bags aren't enough for the three dogs and one cat who love these treats.  All I have to do is shake one of these bags and all four come running into the kitchen.  Even the well-behaved old girl walks in hoping for her treat.<br /><br />These are the only treats I feed my dogs.  They don't get junk dog biscuits or fake sausages that smell like turpentine.  All they get are these treats, two a day per dog.  When I take them out hiking, they get extra treats for extra energy.<br /><br />The cat always insist on his own slivver, too.<br /><br />These treats are easy to pack, don't spoil easily, don't smell and are a lightweight and healthy treat for any four-legged pet. Sure, the treats are a bit pricy but my pets are worth it.<br /><br />UPDATE 24 Feb 2012:  My subscription over the past year kept going up, from a very reasonable USD 19 to a shocking USD 28.  That last price hike was just too much so I cancelled my S&S and am now buying a competitor's product that is much more affordable.  I took a star away because this product is now longer affordable."
,,,,,Glucossamin and chondroitin in a snack!,"My 15 year old loves, I mean adores this treat! I can be assured that she's getting joint nutrients at the same time. Wish it were made in the USA. Maybe some day soon we'll have our own product."
,,,,,Happy Hips Lamb and Rice,I have a Yorkiechon puppy that loves this treat.  Being lamb and rice I think its great for his digestive system.  I will buy it again.
,,,,,"2 dogs, both like it",I have 2 dogs and this product is used for 'treats'.  I believe that there is some improvement in mobility with the one dog<br />that has a problem getting aroundl
,,,,,Great product at a great price.,"Great product at a great price.  Subscribe and save makes this an exceptional buy.  And oh yeah, my dogs love these too!"
,,,,,Dogswell Happy Hips - Treats,"My dog loves these treats and I have been buying them from Target. Found them @ Amazon in bulk and for a much lower per pack price. I got my father's dog hooked on these, too. Now he buys them from Amazon!"
,,,,,My dog loves them!,"My dog always loved these.  And now I can buy them in bulk on Amazon, instead of overpaying for these at the Vet's office.  Am still concerned a bit that they are made in China, but as long as my dog is doing well and still eats her dry food, we are ok with them."
,,,,,The only thing my dog will eat,"My 3-year old Akita is very picky when it comes to food, and usually refuses most of the standard dog treats. This is the only thing he visibly appreciates; BTW, when offered Chicken Happy Hips of the same brand he's not as interested.<br /><br />The only downside is the price; don't ever buy it in retail stores - they charge 2-3 times more than online retailers. Even then it's rather expensive.<br /><br />Hope this helps."
,,,,,My dogs love these,"I have large breed dogs and these are a great way to add valuable joint supplements to their day. They are their favorite treats, too!"
,,,,,GREAT results with continued use at the prescribed dosage!,"My 10 year-old black pug has problems with her back left hip and knee. Sometimes, the leg goes out on her and she ends up on her butt, unable to get moving again. I started feeding these Happy Hips treats to her a few months ago, but did not realize that I was not feeding as many as prescribed which is 1 jerky treat for each 7.5 pounds of body weight. She did show some relief at the lower level. However, after realizing my error and increasing the dosage to the recommended level, she now shows FANTASTIC results. After 3 weeks, she chases her squirrels, she and her cat brother play chase, and she hops right over puddles. She has not had her back leg go out on her this entire past month. She's a real dog again! Just know that you must be patient - it took 3 weeks of daily use at the recommended level to see the full results. This product has worked so well, I now have it on auto-order."
,,,,,Great product,"My dog loves this jerkey and since he needs glucosamine, it's an easy way to give him some."
,,,,,Pretty good treats.,"I came across these treats months ago in Target when I was looking for things  to make my dogs first vet experience a more pleasant one.<br /><br />They were the healthiest things in the store, believe you me!<br />My dog really liked these.<br /><br />I did go on the site and everything looked kosher but I was eventually scared away from them b/c of the whole 'Made in China' issue. She is eating other treats right now but...I'm willing to give Dogswell another try.<br />H*ll, look at all of the recalls occurring within OUR borders....and the bulk of us are still eating beef."
,,,,,Waggin Tails,My dog has a delicate stomach and she can eat these without bothering her and she loves them.  I keep them on hand and she shares them with her friends when they comes to play!
,,,,,happy dogs= Happy Hips treats,"If your dogs need glucosamine and chondroitin, this is the product for you. It must be tasty because my 14 1/2 year old Westie loves it as does her much younger sister."
,,,,,Both my dogs love this product,"I have an older dog, medium size mixed breed with back problems. We also have a tea-cup pom who has had knee surgery. They love this treat. The ingredients are good for them and it is an easy way to get them to take the Glucosamine/Chondroitin that they need."
,,,,,Two Paws Up for Dogswell,"my shelties love these treats and their breed is known to have hip problems, so happy hips is always on hand in our household."
,,,,,Wonderful......,"These treats are the best!  I break them into smaller pieces and use as training treats.  I would recommend dogswell to anyone.  My dogs LOVE these and the chicken jerky.  I love them because they do not cause any digestive ""issues""..."
,,,,,The Best for the money,"I have been using this product, as well as the duck breast, for well over a year. There is no comparison to Tail Waggers from [...]. This product is the only one that my 3 dogs will eat without hesitation. They have put their noses up to all other treats, except this brand."
,,,,,Price is right and my dog loves them,"My Jack Russell has problems with patella luxation. I decided against surgery after researching the success rate of it and 5 years after it was diagnosed she is still OK. I keep her weight down and give her plenty of long walks to stengthen her ligaments. The vet told me she would probably have problems with arthritis so I give her one of these chicken strips daily and also give her liquid glucosamine choindroitin on a small piece of bread. My dog loves the chicken strips, the price on Amazon is better than me buying the indivdual packs from the store and having the glucosamine in it is another way for me to administer glucosamine to her in a way that is tasty."
,,,,,Outstanding dog treats (Not),"My dog loves them.  I purchased them way cheaper at Amazon than at the market.<br />Theoretically, they have an adequate amount of glucosamine and chondroitin.<br />My dog won't eat the pill (even in a ball of peanut butter).<br /><br />  MJG<br /><br /> Follow-up to my review of Dogswell Happy Hips. Since my original review, I have checked this product at Consumer Lab. According to their lab results this product has only 6% of the glucosamine and 14% of the condroitin that it claims. Don't buy it expecting to help your dog with joint problems<br /><br />  MJG"
,,,,,This is a terrific product,"This product is great.  First off, the dogs love it, they get it the same time in the morning, and they go crazy when I take out the bag.  One of my dogs has very bad allergies, he can only eat certain foods, specifically lamb and rice, and not chemical fillers. The Happy Hips fit the bill, they are quite wholesome.  My dogs are getting a bit up in years also, and it is good for them to get a dose of glucosamine and condroitin."
,,,,,Yummy dog treat,I have been giving my dog Happy Hips for several years. It contains glucosamine and condroitin which is good for the joints. Amazon has absolutly the best price out there too. Your dog will beg for these treats.
,,,,,Duck is very good for dogs that are prone to skin conditions,"We have three dogs. One (Shaunty) is a Bishon Frise. Shaunty has had a tendency of developing ""hot spots"", a dermatitis type problem. Our vet recommended we switch to a duck and potato dog food, which we did. All three dogs love the  duck and potato dog food so the switch was easy...although the dog food is expensive. Anyway, when I saw these duck jerky treats I had to try them. We've been buying them monthly on Amazon's subscribe and save program and all our dogs look forward to their daily treat. You can buy this product with confidence."
,,,,,Dogs love them!,My dogs can not wait to get this treat everyday.  I think the glucosamine helps my older dog's joints.  If your dog has allergies I would go with the lamb and rice over the other flavors.
,,,,,These are GREAT!  Superior Service !,My Dobes would barely let me put the box on the kitchen to open it!  Terrific product at a great price and superior customer service.
,,,,,My dog loves these,My dog is only 2 but has a bad front leg. I wanted to give her a treat that she will love but will also help her leg for years to come. This seems like it's the one! She absolutely loves these treats and I feel good giving them to her. I have not met a dog yet that doesn't like the taste. The 6-pack is the way to go - SO MUCH CHEAPER than buying them in the store. Bone appetite!
,,,,,Did not work for us,"My dog refuses to eat these snacks.  I was expected that these snacks have a strong liver smell, however they smell like plastic..."
,,,,,Great treats,My German Sheperd loves this stuff.  I do wish it came in bigger pieces as they are brittle and tend to break up into small pieces.
,,,,,Must be good!,My dogs are on a special diet so there are few treats I can feed.  These are their favorites and cause no problems for them.
,,,,,"Happy Pup, Happy Mom!",My lab mix with hip dysplasia and a sensitive stomach was happy to see the large box of treats come through the door.  They are easy on his stomach and certainly can't help in aiding his hips.  The price was unbeatable for a flavor that is harder to find in stores.  As a bonus they are natural and high end!
,,,,,lamb and rice review,I was very happy with the speed of the delivery and the quality of the treats.  My dogs love them.
,,,,,dogfood umame,"Our adopted Jack Russells have had eating problems related to going from junk food to organic,  We grind this product and the liver ""terriyaki"" in a coffee grinder and sprinkle it over their pellets to get them started.  Works every time."
,,,,,"Dog loves them, I haven't tried them.","My dog (a greyhound), loves these treats. Seems like these have really spoiled him, he rarely eats his other treats now. As for how good these are for him, I really have no idea. Other than him not eating his other treats, there's been no notable difference. He's just as lazy as he was before."
,,,,,wonderful natural product for older dogs,our dog is 14 years old and this product is part of an arthritic regiment and it is WONDERFUL she walks like she 6 yrs old.<br />Thanks you
,,,,,healthy treats at a reasonable price,I have a very fussy Yorksire terrier and a miniature schnauzer and both them absolutely love these treats.  I give them to them after they finish their breakfast and they bark at me if I forget!  I like the fact that they have no fillers or artificial ingredients because my dogs have food allergies. These treats are the greatest!
,,,,,Dog treats,My dog can't wait to come back from her walk to get her treat.  She is allergic to a lot of things and these are just perfect.  I love using Amazon so I don't have to go out.
,,,,,great treat for our yorkie,"This is a great treat for our yorkie.  She loves the duck and it is good for her.  Please read the amount to give your size dog.<br />Thanks,  Brian"
,,,,,FDA Warning !  Poison! Made IN China !,"PLEASE research, on the web! This product nearly killed my dog! All of Dogswell jerky treats are Poison!! Made in China! This Dist. does not seem to care he is killing our pets. Fda told me 70 dogs have died from these kind of dog treats. BEWARE! I have over 1,000.00 in vet bills. Amazon please don't sell this line to us, talk with the FDA,<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AJ1ULS"">Dogswell Happy Hips for Dogs, Chicken Breast,15-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 3)</a> find another product made in the USA, before more of our furry friends get sick or die."
,,,,,"Caused diarrhea in one dog, vomiting in the other","I honestly don't know how this product could have garnered so many five-star reviews. I bought it for my senior dogs (14 years old) when their usual joint treats (Pet Naturals of Vermont soft chews) were out of stock, since one of my dogs is very finicky about what glucosamine supplements he'll take, and I had tried everything else available without success. I gave both of them the recommended dosage, based on their weights (15 and 24 lbs), and was delighted to see that they happily accepted the treats.  Within 12 hours, though, my Yorkie had raging diarrhea and my Eskie-poo had vomited forcefully, which was very unusual for both of them. Not realizing it was this product, I tried it again a couple of days after nursing them back to health, with the exact same effect. Internet searches confirmed that other users have similarly reported nasty GI side effects with this product."
,,,,,Happy Hips,"These are great treats, even for fussy dogs.  The glucosamine and chrondroitin realy do help older dogs with their joints."
,,,,,Great treat for your precious critters!,"Dogswell has continued to live up to its stellar reputation with these additive free, wholesome treats for dogs.<br />I give all of my four footed babies these treats and it adds to an organic diet already rich in good food.  I have yet to meet any pup who doesn't love these treats both for the chewy, crunchy needs that dogs need, but also for the total nutrition it provides.  If you are worried about the latest pet food recalls from China, these treats have never had to be recalled."
,,,,,Dog Won't Eat Them,"My dog loves chicken breast treats. That is, until I bought these. I'm sure this is simply a matter of taste. I don't know if the additives smell different or what's turning him off but he'll pick it up and then just drop it. He refuses to eat them at all."
,,,,,Dogs love them,"What else can I say?  They are great, healthy treat. Dogs love them. Apparently I need 20 words to say this treat is yummy and the ..umm.. dogs love them?"
,,,,,Great price for a favorite treat.,"Our three Chihuahuas love this treat and it is good for them (especially the 14 yr. old), but it is expensive in the stores.  I am so glad to have found it at Amazon at a much lower price!"
,,,,,Good treats,"My dog doesn't like most treats, but loves these.  She gives them 4 paws up!<br /><br />The product arrived quickly and saved me a half-hour drive to a pet store."
,,,,,happy hips,"my ""big man"" is a 90 lb boxer with hip displasea who needs help when it comes to exercising at full speed, especially in cold weather. he was also born with a jaw bone problem.  Happy Hips gives help with his chewing and simply yawning.  also has proven that i cannot EVER fail to have HH on hand to aid his movements<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AJ1ULS"">Dogswell Happy Hips for Dogs, Chicken Breast,15-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 3)</a>"
,,,,,My dogs love them!,"We've been buying happy hips for a while - online and at stores. I feel that if I'm going to give my dog a treat, one that's closest to something ""healthy"" should be it. My dogs LOOOOOOVE them, I think it's their fav. Treat by far. I'm subscribed to Amazon's delivery so you do get them for a little less money and you don't have to think about going online and buying them, you will automatically get them. I love that feature - would recommend using it if you buy these regularly."
,,,,,DOGS LOVE,These dried chicken breasts are a healthy treat. They are expensive so my dogs each get 2 a day. Happy Hips are $16 a bag in grocery and pet stores so 3 bags for $30 is a real deal and they are worth it.
,,,,,My Kids Love This,I like the Dogswell Happy Hips Chicken Breast because of the quality and lack of chemical additives. And both my cat and dog would eat only this if they could. Ordering auto ship saves even more from Amazon's discount pricing.
,,,,,Dog snack,"My dogs eat this product every day, and I rather other the pack of three because I have 4 dogs.  Thanks again Amazon."
,,,,,Liver treats seem off...,"I have fed the chicken and duck version of these--though now the reviews regarding china I find disturbing.<br /><br />Regardless, the beef liver version of these are not a hit with my pup and seem to be a very odd, plastic texture.<br /><br />The duck and chicken are both great--but I will be investigating the source of the food."
,,,,,Exactly as promised,I got exactly what I anticipated I would.  My dogs start every single day with a Dogswell Happy Hips Chicken strip.
,,,,,My dogs love these!,"My dogs all seem to love these and will choose them over other treats. They have the added bonus of being fortified with glucosamine and chondroitin which are great for my aging dog's hips and joints. These are the best value that I've found for these and with Subscribe and Save, they are even a better deal!"
,,,,,Happy for Happy Hips!,"I have 3 very active McNab...working cow dogs.  The oldest two have shown a vast improvement in their flexibility and agility.  Kessler and Hootie are ""just like new"", and they are 13 and 14 years old!  Rita, our 4 year old loves Happy Hips too.  I think it's good to start them on these while they are young. These ""treats"" are so pure and nutritious.  I don't ever give my guys rawhide, but like rawhide, the Happy Hips are a little tough to chew and that helps clean their teeth.  Our guys like the duck as well as the chicken.  I'd like to recommend that you subscribe to these so you don't ever run out!  I get a monthly shipment of each flavor and we're good to go!  Thank you Happy Hips for helping my guys live a happy, flexible life!<br /><br />Deb Phelan<br />San Luis Obispo, California"
,,,,,These treats are dog favorites,"The treats are my dogs' all-time hands-on favorite. Buying them in the three pack makes sense: I always have them on-hand for them. They are packed well, and arrive quickly each time."
,,,,,Healthy Snack.,"My dog loves these and everyone I have shared with agrees it's a great snack. Why feed grains and ""dog bones"" when you can offer a high protein healthy snack that promotes good health!"
,,,,,Excellent,My Dog loves Dogswell Happy Hips duck breast strips.  I put a couple in his kong ball and he plays and plays.  One of his favorite treats.  good for him and not fattening.
,,,,,our dog loves em,"our dog, biggie, loves these things.  and never seems to get tired of em.  these are the treats that make him do all his tricks with gusto cuz he wants them so bad!  i dunno if the glucosamine/chondroitin really helps their joints but we're hoping it does."
,,,,,Helps aching joints,My thirteen year old Yorkshire Terrier loves Dogswell Happy Hips Chicken breast strips and the glucosomine has helped her arthritis a great deal.  She jumps and runs like a puppy again!  My five year old yorkie loves them too!  I highly recommend this product.
,,,,,The Healthiest Treat for Dogs!,"Dogswell has the best treats for dogs, wholesome ingredients, free of chemicals and hormones, and even my finicky dogs love them!  I always have several varieties on hand.  Amazon is one of the best places I've found to buy them at a reasonable price and free shipping.  Excellent product, highly recommended!"
,,,,,My dog is addicted!!!,My great dane has two torn acls and has arthritis in her hips... and she is ONLY three. Well we have done one surgery and will be doing the second next spring when she is healed. In the mean time I needed to find some DIFFERENT way to provide her with Glucosamine. Since she is so picky I needed something in a treat form. These are her FAVORITE thing to eat! I went to Petco and was going to buy ONE bag for $35 and realized this offer was for THREE bags at the same price. I could not be happier and neither can she. She has only been eating them for three weeks and is not even limping on her surgical knee (its been 8 weeks and it takes 12 weeks to fully heal). Even our vet is surprised she is doing this well and the only change was these treats! I recommend them to anyone who needs to help their pet enjoy their life to the fullest! BUY these! You wont regret it!!!!<br /><br />PS - I also bought the duck and she loves those too :)
,,,,,Old Dogs,"We have two Great Pyrenees. One is 13 and the other is turning 9. As with all large breed dogs hips are a problem. What is more of a problem is getting them to take medications. Happy Hips is the solution. Our doggies love the taste, and they get the meds they need."
,,,,,Too dry and sharp,"I had previously purchased the chicken and the duck from this line so I wanted to try the beef liver.<br />Well, my dog likes the flavor but I don't like how dry they are. They have very sharp edges and I had to be creative to soften them a bit so that my dog wouldn't suffer from a rapture in the esophagus while eating them as they are. The other 2 (chicken + duck) are a little chewer than this one. I would not buy this again unless texture improves."
,,,,,Ok for an expensive treat; not for a supplement,"Thought I was getting a really good buy on these until I read the label. The dosage amount of Glucosamine/Chondroitin is vague. It appears I need to give my dog an entire bag to get him 500 mg of glucosamine. Too expensive for me. The dogs love them, so if you want to give them an expensive treat they'll love, go for it. If you are trying to get a preventative dose of glucosamine in a treat look elsewhere."
,,,,,Not so sure because,I hope this may help others whose dogs love this treat like my fussy Lhasa Apso but she's nearly 16 yrs. old and I found she suddenly developed an insatiable thirst; which then caused so many frequent late night forays to go outside to relieve herself we lost hours of sleep. Thinking it was her age we let it go for awhile then I decided to take her off the varied brands of dehydrated chicken breast (all without additives) and within a week she no longer empied bowls of water and had to go out all night long. It may react on her differently because of her age but for others who may experience this problem you may need to take your dog off this type of treat...I'm now using the Purina Chicken Carvers (I know chemicals) but she no longer is having problems..go figure... I guess dogs are all different too huh?
,,,,,not as good as the chicken strips,"My dog is crazy for the Dogswell chicken strips but these she's not excited about. These are crunchy like a pressed cracker, not a meat strip, and not as chewy."
,,,,,Great Stuff!,"This stuff literally smells like bbq'd chicken! It's actually that good.<br />My dog will do anything to get these treats, plus they're totally healthy.<br />Will be buying these again."
,,,,,Natural Dog Treat - wonderful and dog loves,"My very fussy pug, Zoe absolutely loves the chicken strips and I feel comfortable giving them to her since they are all natural chicken, and easily digestible."
,,,,,my dog's favorite treat,"my german shepherd loves these.  he's very picky about both his food and treats so it was a relief to find something he likes.  the package recommends giving him 4-6/day but that seems excessive--usually two or three throughout the day makes him happy.  they are in small strips, much like jerky--much less disgusting than some of his other treats, such as pigs feet/ears.  i will definitely continue to purchase."
,,,,,DOGS LOVe THEM,"NEVER MET A DOG THAT DIDN""T LIKE THEM & THEY ARE GOOD FOR THEIR HIPS!"
,,,,,Perfect- even for a finicky eater with allergies!,"My 60 lb dog LOVES these.  She is very picky about food and treats, but eats this readily.  She needs the glucosamine/chondroitin for her knees and even if I hid the pills in cat food, peanut butter, you name it- she wouldn't touch it.  She also has allergies to a lot of common ingredients (chicken, beef, wheat), so really this treat is a lifesaver!"
,,,,,Dog's choice,A hands down favorite of my dogs. Glucosamine & Chrondrotin is a favorite recommendation from my vets. No better way to get it than in a tasty chewy (not hard) treat.
,,,,,Great Product,My dog is 11 years old and has a bad back. He is a VERY picky eater.  He LOVES these treats and asks for them if we forget to give him one. (Which is seldom because he is so spoiled) There is a bit more of a perk in his step since we've discovered this product. The cost here on Amazon is fantastic too because the stores have been charging me $7.99 a bag. (NYC prices yikes)
,,,,,Best dog treats,My dog goes crazy for these. And looking at the ingredients they look good for him too.<br />Joel Simkhai
,,,,,doggie ice cream,I don't know what they put in this stuff but my dogs go absolutely crazy for it and the Amazon price was by far the lowest.<br /><br />Rich
,,,,,Happy Hips=Happy Pets,"I purchased this item for our 11 year old dog on the recommendation of our vet. Our dog loves these treats, and they seem to help her joint discomfort. They are a good size for a treat. I give her one or two a day and have noticed an improvement in the way she moves around-less limping. Try them. Your dog will love you for it and you'll like what it does for your dog!"
,,,,,Made in China,"Thought these were healthy treats, but found out that they are Made in China.  Noted on back of bag.  Concerned that it may fall into China made Jerky treats suspected to cause kidney problems in pets."
,,,,,Great made in China product for dogs.,"I've noticed that quite a few people don't seem to believe the labels of products made in China, when it is usually a U.S. company that dictates what goes into the product.  Besides read the labels of products made right here--a vast majority of them contain toxic to humans & animals ingredients--everything from paint & varnish to the food is tainted with these toxic chemicals & all made right here in the U.S.A.  So, if you can trust a U.S. label--why not trust a Chinese label?  These treats are sure a hit with our dogs--all 7 of them love the chicken, lamb & rice, & the duck with glucosamine & chrondroitin.  We buy this type because of our older dogs with severe arthritis.  Our 15 yr. old was almost beyond walking until we started feeding him these snacks & our 9 yr. old Chihuahua's hip problems are much improved. On S&S these snacks are the cheapest price that we have found & with free shipping--Keep 'em coming Dogswell & Amazon--yes, even from the dreaded China."
,,,,,Happy Hips are a lifesaver!,"My little Schipperke could hardly walk in the morning because her hips hurt so much.  Even though she is only two, we worried that she would need surgery to get around.  We started her on Happy Hips and in less than two weeks, she was a pup again... running around and enjoying life.  And, she runs to the kitchen in the morning to beg for her ""treat"" because she loves the taste.  What a great product.  Thank you so much."
,,,,,Even the fussiest pooch will approve!,"I have given these treats to an array of doggies: english bulldogs, a boston terrier, a hound mix, and several mutt breeds...the overall consensus? Two very enthusiastic paws up! Not one of the dogs turned it down. Pretty impressive. No matter how fussy your dog, or how limited his or her dietary restrictions, these treats not only drive them wild, but have added goodies to improve their health. Ya' can't go wrong! I also would try the other varieties (heart health, breathies, vitality) each has a lil' something to address your dog's specific needs, and above all, they will love 'em."
,,,,,"Dogs love these, and great vitamin addins","I am always feeding my dogs chicken jerky, I love how this product has Glucosamine and Chondroitin in it. I am not sure how many I would have to feed though to get the true effects, I only feed 1 a day to each of my 4 dogs.<br /><br />They love these, as they love all the Dogswell products. For smaller dogs, make sure you break up into smaller pieces as I had a pug almost choke on chicken jerkey ( not this brand )"
,,,,,Dogs love this,"This is great product, but for small dogs make sure you break it up in smaller pieces. Almost lost my dog due to impaction due to him eating too fast. I feel good feeding this to my dogs!"
,,,,,consumer lab report on dogswell happy hips,"consumer lab reports that in dogswell happy hips the condroitin level is not acceptable, to low"
,,,,,My five dogs love these!,I used to buy these from a local pet store but this 3 pack is the best deal going.  I intend to continue purchasing this product.
,,,,,Happy little pappi,"I got a sample of this product at an expo. My papillon loved it, so I decided to purchase more.  This has turned out to be such a great product for her, as her hips and neck were so sore and stiff prior to her experience with Happy Hips.....  The doctor had told us she had disc problems in her neck, she would walk around and scream in pain all the time.  She seemed to just be deteriorating right before our eyes.  Now, after just a few weeks of giving her one to two a day, she is running and bouncing and playing just like a puppy again.  She plays with our other 2 dogs and it's a joy to watch.  We used to give her liquid medicine for this, and it never made her feel THIS good.  This is a product I will continue to buy over and over......"
,,,,,An outstanding product,I have two dogs who have had some hip problems.  This product has truly helped their recovery.  I can recommend this product without any reservations.  They love the product and it has worked.
,,,,,it gets my dog to eat,"i have a service dog who is in kidney failure from birth and she is still ok but ets her nutrition form my cooking and these treats give her the supplements for her bones. I am a cancer patient and i think they are of good wuality so far.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001NXDM30"">Autumn of Blessed Acres service dog</a>"
,,,,,My dog loves them,"These treats are great, my dog loves them.  I can't say for sure they do anything for her hips but she really enjoys them.  She recommends them highly:)"
,,,,,Good deal on a great item!,"Well first, my dog loves these.  I made the mistake of giving one to him at night before bed, and now he flat out demands these before bed or he pouts all night. Why?  Well, it's basically a healthy chicken jerky.  The ingredients are good, and so is the quality!  I am very sensitive as to what is in pet foods I buy, and this is a great treat!<br /><br />And I do have a comment about the person who mentioned that they are made in China. My response is so what?  I actually think it is a good thing!  We treat chickens (as mean as they are) so poorly here, and their waste pollutes our rivers and streams.  Land is a whole lot cheaper and easier to come by in China, and they don't tend to pack them as densely as they do here.  So thanks to China we have a great product with a much cheaper price point then we would normally have to pay for.  We are one world people, and if another country can make a quality product with a lighter impact on the environment then we can, I am happy to share whatever the profits are with them.  Sure they made many mistakes industrializing, and I am sure they will make more... just as we will.  However, they are very sensitive to maintaining quality at a good price point, and I have more faith in chicken coming from China then I do from the US... sad to say but true.<br /><br />So back to the review.  While the quality and look of the product is great looking, the smell indicates that the flavors are probably stronger then just regular chicken (think of beef jerky).  If your dog has a very sensitive tummy I would buy a small pack first and make certain that it digests easily.  As for my dog, a Golden Retriever, he would likely gobble the whole bag if he could, and not think twice about doing it again the next day."
,,,,,"My dogs are loving these, thinly sliced so easy to chew","I don't think everything from China is crappy, though I do think it pays to be vigilant EVERYWHERE these days.  But cage free in the US and in China doesn't mean happy chickens either place - it just means they're in a barn (usually without light) - check out Food, Inc. and many other documentaries.  If it were natural for my dogs, I'd have them go vegan too, but right now I do what I can with the humans in our family and try to pick what seems to be the least harmful to all other sentient creatures sharing this planet.<br />So that being said, this product compares to other chicken jerky products for dogs out there just fine and to boot does not have hormones.  Also, the individual slices are thinner than many other brands which helps the dogs chew these properly (fewer larger chunks swallowed).  The price is great to boot - I highly recommend these and will be buying more (at least until there is some healthy vegan jerky for dogs that I can afford!)"
,,,,,Happy hips/Happy customer,"Product came in as expected, timely, and well packaged. I knew already the product from the local stores and I was happy to find at a cheaper price at Amazon.com."
,,,,,Our Dogs Love 'Em,We've got 2 golden retrievers and these are one of their favorite treats.  We've been getting this brand of treats from Amazon for almost a year with no complaints: either from us or the pups!<br /><br />And you can save an extra 15% with Amazon's Subscribe and Save feature.  It's free to cancel once you've purchased if you don't want to keep getting them.
,,,,,The three dogs loved these,"Just like the other Dogswell treats, my three dogs approved of these, and can't get enough of them. I think this makes our eight year old black lab (who has arthritis) a little peppier, and less stiff. These treats have all natural ingredients. I would definitely buy again."
,,,,,Byron's favorite treat,This is the best dog treat for the best price.  Totally pleased with the whole shopping experience through Amazon.
,,,,,I Have Happy Dogs Now,"My dogs love this product.  Finally, someone who cares about my dogs as much as I do.  The product is not only loved by my precious babies, but it does not smell bad, it is easy to store and handle, and makes a difference in the way they feel.  One of my dogs has some hip problems, I have noticed a difference in the way he gets around.  Truly a WONDERFUL product. I will continue to buy these products and try more of the other things made by Dogswell!"
,,,,,Ten Stars,"Having multuple dogs to feed snacks to I can tell you this is their number one choice, hands down. Helping with hip relief is an added perk. This item should get a TEN star rating."
,,,,,Great!!,I have been hunting for a decent treat for my GSD.  She just had TPLO surgery and has been recovering nicely.  I did a search for healthy treats and came across these happy hips.  The ingredients are natural and she absolutely loves them.  The idea that it is also benefitial for her joints adds a special bonus to the product.  No sugar or garbage in these.  I have been keying in on more protein in her diet as she has had digestive problems.  She has had not problems since I changed.  You can't go wrong with these.
,,,,,My dog loves these!,"When I run out of these, my dog reluctantly eats other treats, but I can tell she is not happy.  My cats even try to steal them from her.<br /><br />It's hard to find good quality pet snacks without a lot of additives and grain free.  These Dogswell brand are the best."
,,,,,"Good idea , but....made in China","Originally, these were made in US. Now made in China ( see back of bag) ... advertised as natural,cage free, no hormones, no fillers, no antibiotics ...HUH? Not in China... I will not trust these as safe treats. Follow up:  My dogs vomited after they ate these. 3/09 original warnings from FDA 2007 re: chicken product from China... a follow up was issued by the FDA again on 12/18/08 to remain vigilant and of concern if fed to smaller dogs.<br /><br />Update: DEC 2011 All chicken Jerky remains a problem according to the FDA (product from China noted again to be of concern)<br />Some dogs made ill from chicken jerky product recovered with treatment and others have died.<br />The email from my vet stated that the FDA would like you to report if you have a problem with chicken jerky treats."
,,,,,BEWARE:  MADE IN CHINA,"I'm disturbed that these treats, as many reviewers state, are so ""addictive."" My dog, too, loves them but has now begun to shun her meals and will only eat these treats. In trying to make sense of her current state of anorexia, I recently became aware of the FDA advisory on Dec. 19, 2008 stating that one of the symptoms to be aware of in dogs eating chicken jerky treats made in China is ""decreased appetite, although some may continue to consume the treats to the exclusion of other foods."" So be very wary of the fact that dogs seem to go crazy over these treats.  Although the Dogswell Company states clearly that their product is not contaminated, and that third party testers have confirmed this, do the owners of the company truly know what's happening in China behind the scenes?  Or who might get paid off to test certain batches of jerky?  I and my vet have been unable to come up with any other explanation for my dog's anorexia, except that it coincides with her increased interest (and now ONLY interest) in Happy Hips since I began treating her with them last spring.  Thankfully, her kidney function is still fine, but if you research this on the web, many other dogs were not so lucky and died due to kidney failure.<br />See this link to the FDA website suggesting caution to consumers in using chicken jerky products from China.  Be informed!  [...]"
,,,,,Dogswell Happy Hips - Made in China,"I had bought this product last year my dog loved them, but... I subscribe to a couple of Bichon Frise newsgroup and they are saying not to feed these to your dog as they come from China I threw out what I had left for the outside critters in the forest.  I called Dogswell today and they verified that even though they say U.S. on them they are still coming from China."
,,,,,Made in China! My dog got very sick...,"Please be aware that although dogs absolutely LOVE these treats, that they may have caused a recent unexplainable illness in our 9 month old Mastiff pup. He was getting 1 or 2 a day of these chicken jerky's for about a week and then suddenly became very lethargic, along with vomiting, diarrhea, and had no appetite ""except"" he would eat only these treats and drink water. Vet thinks he'll recover OK, but advised us to stop feeding them to our dogs. These are still ""Made in China"" and in 2007 reports had shown that dogs were getting sick from these and other brands, and there are still reported cases today. Just be careful and watch your pets closely if you are feeding them these. We will no longer feed these to any of our dogs, ever. Wish Dogswell would manufacturer these in the USA again."
,,,,,reommend you avoid chinese sourced food products for your pet,"These chicken strips (and most others like them) are priced so low they are hard to resist. My dogs love them of course and for dogs who tolerate chicken, they should be excellent treats. However, I do not trust pet foods sourced from China. Most of you should remember the melamine disaster of several years ago that killed and permanantly injured over ten thousand pets. It remains almost impossible to determine the conditions under which chinese food products are produced and manufactured. The rumors in the veterinary world (I am a DVM)are that the majority of the chickens used in these cheap products are dead before processing. No one has any clue what, if any, adulterants are added. Many brands are irradiated (if this matters to you). Overall, I recommend purchasing pet food products that the manufacturer guarantees are made 100% from US grown and processed ingredients."
,,,,,Beware.... sudden change in product,"We have been ordering these chicken jerky treats for a long time with Amazon subscribe and save. My Boston Terriers really love them and get very excited to get their treat every morning. When I opened a bag from my most recent shipment, my dogs refused to take the treat from my hand. They took one sniff and backed away. My son's Lab got very sick from chicken jerky made in China and his vet told him to only buy treats made in the U.S.and I'm going to follow that advice."
,,,,,Don't buy,"Made in China, does anything else need to be said?<br /><br />I used to buy them then noticed the label, I will not buy again."
,,,,,MADE IN CHINA,"I am very disappointed that this Happy Hips product is made in China now. If it wasn't for me going into a pet food store that doesn't carry products not made in the USA I would be still feeding this product to my dog. I am really concerned on finding a new product due to my Bichon's allergies, she can only have Lamb. She now sits at the cabinet and cries for her treat. I think I may need to make my own lamb jerkey in my dehydrator. More work but worth it. With no regulations in China who knows what is swept from the floors and put in the product. As we know the packaging is misleading what is misleading in the ingredents. I have been to China it is scary. We take so much for granted in the USA.<br /><br />dp"
,,,,,Once a great product,"My dogs loved this product and I was happy to spend the money on it, but now that it's made in China- thumbs down, what were they thinking? I'll never buy it again. There are better products made in the USA. If you care about the well being of your dog, you will avoid products made in China."
,,,,,Causes diarrhea and vomiting!! Do not buy!,"I will no longer be giving these to my dog!! They caused my dog to have diarrhea and vomit! When I did some more research online, there were many many posts about how the treats caused their dogs to have similar and even much more severe health issues! My dog loves these treats. I have been giving these to her for about a year or two now. Every once in a while she would have diarrhea or start vomiting a yellow foamy substance- in most cases both, and I finally now linked it to these treats. Do your research before you buy this product!! However, I would not recommend these at all!"
,,,,,My dog feels better!,"I've been giving these treats to my dog for roughly 3 weeks now.  He is a Dalmation/Hound mix and has joint issues in his back legs.  At 12 years old we have definitely noticed him slowing down.  He has food allergies so having this medication in the form of duck breast (something which dogs are rarely allergic to I am told) was perfect for our Buddy.  He's running a bit again in the yard and seems more inclined to go for a walk (something he used to love to do).  I highly recommend a try if you are skeptical.  I like it so much I went to a ""subscription"" status to save a little more money.  At roughly $20/month for us, it is well worth the ""investment"" - it just plain made him feel better!"
,,,,,Dog treats,Always been happy with the quality and price of these treats. Receive them quickly and packaged well.  I would recommend this seller.  Nicely done and no worries.
,,,,,Dog Medicine (they think it's candy),"Every morning after they are fed, two of my Poms get Happy Hips and the third wants in on it.  They think it's a great treat and never not want it."
,,,,,Happy Hips,"I am so happy I found this product on Amazon! My dog loves these little treats and they really do seem to help her aging joints. However, the dollars add up so finding a reasonably priced site was wonderful! As always, I received them super fast."
,,,,,"Happy Hips Really, Really Work","I have a beautiful oldie but goodie huskie who was suffering from hip and joint pains. After trying other products, I happened upon Happy Hips. He absolutely loves the taste and I was amazed at his results. He is back to actually running up and down stairs again. He is 15 years old and could not be doing better."
,,,,,goldensrule,"Our nine year old, very active, Golden Retriever loves these treats.  We cut several of them up into bite-size pieces and add them to her twice daily meals.  One order lasts us approximately two months, and the Amazon continuous shipping works great."
,,,,,Best Dog Treats Around at Amazon,"Besides being tasty, Happy Hips is good for your dog. It's a quality product by a great company dedicated to making only the best food and treats. Also, by signing up for recurring shipments, you are saving money. It's win, win, win."
,,,,,Doggie Heroin,"If you're looking for a never-fail, works-every-time dog treat, look no further. Far superior to any other chicken jerky we've tried, and we've tried at least six. Terrific product at a very good price."
,,,,,Drat!,I wish I had read that these are made in China before I bought them.  They are going in the trash - lesson learned.
,,,,,Shelter Dogs Love These!,"My dog loves these! And, the dogs at the local shelter I volunteer love them too! So much we use them as lures to get them to pose nicely for photos. We're all mutts, adopt one!"
,,,,,my dog loves these! made in china... so what?,"My dog absolutely looooves these treats! He even got the cat hooked on them lol They taste terrific (i try everything i buy for my dog before i feed it to him because if i think it's nasty, i will not force him to eat it either) however, the Made In China on the back of the package was a very very scary discovery. After reading some of the 1 starred reviews on Amazon bashing the product bc it's manufactured in China i decided to google it and i found nothing about Dogswell being affected by the recall. Here's a letter from Marco Giannini, the CEO of Dogswell & Catswell http://www.catswell.com/data/fe/File/letter.pdf<br />These are posts by Marco Giannini defending his products on itchmoforums.com http://itchmoforums.com/profiles/dogswell-u1427.html;sa,showPosts;start,30"
,,,,,My dog Rocky loves Happy Hips and they agree with his sensitive stomch.,"Rocky is a beautiful Collie but a very picky eater with a sensitive stomach.  He will not eat store bought dog bones and I have made him home made ones in the past.  However, he loves Happy Hips and they agree with his sensitive stomach, so they are not only good for him but apparently taste good also."
,,,,,Made our dogs Ill,"I bought this product last week for our dogs, within a day both were vomiting and refusing food. Our larger dog is doing ok since we stopped feeding them but our little guy is not. Taking both to the vet tomorrow along with these treats."
,,,,,Do not buy this product,Admittedly my dog loves these treats and thinks they are delicious.  However they are made in China and dog lovers in the US usually choose not to buy products from China due to prior problems with the quality control that has sickened many animals.  Dogswell should take note of this and manufacture them in the US.  It should also be noted that competitive brands on your grocery store shelves are also made in China even though distributed in California.  The only brand I have found that is manufactured in the US is from Trader Joes.  If you love your dog do not buy this item.  Go to Trader Joes.
,,,,,MADE IN CHINA!!!!!,"Used to subscribe to this item, as my dogs loved them, but I just found that they are made in china. I will never feed these to my dogs again or buy anything from the company."
,,,,,Made in China? Not feeding THIS anymore!,"Up until now, I believed I was feeding my dogs a healthful treat that was good for them. Of note: the glucosamine and chondroitin content in these jerky treats is of the highest I've seen in a treat that they actually ""like"" and look forward to having. I was feeding these as a daily joint supplement to my poodle in particular who, as of late, had been experiencing more joint issues after a traumatic hip injury years earlier.<br /><br />Thanks to the savvy poster who brought to light this product is now being produced in China. Costco sells jerky treats made in China as well, and I no longer purchase those and warn my clients about purchasing them too. Only made in the USA and USDA inspected, as far as I'm concerned.<br /><br />Why oh why can't pet owners find a decently priced, trustworthy jerky treat for our pets that is A. High in glucosamine and B. Isn't manufactured in China? Being that China has shown little diligence with regards to creating a child's toy that isn't later involved in a recall, I'm certainly not about to give any credence to something that will be ingested by my pets. I'm tossing the rest of these treats in the trash!<br /><br />No. Thank. You."
,,,,,dogswell is now made in China!,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AJ1ULS"">Dogswell Happy Hips for Dogs, Chicken Breast,15-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 3)</a>Dogswell chicken jerky is now made in China.  The FDA has warned against dog food products made in China.  Don't risk it!"
,,,,,Pet food and/or treats from China,"I purchase almost daily from Amazon and recommend Amazon to my friends constantly. I think that makes me a very good customer.<br />I have a very serious concern. When Amazon sells pet food and/or treats made in China they must be disclosed on the Amazon page as ""MADE IN CHINA"". No one who loves their pet will buy them, but Amazon will at least give us a fair chance to protect our beloved pets from these poisons imported from China.<br />As a loyal customer, I expect Amazon to protect me and my loved ones from hidden threats. Amazon MUST disclose the country of origin for ALL food products! If Amazon is too ashamed to disclose the source, then Amazon should not sell it!"
,,,,,Made in China??? WHY!,"I used to buy these all the time and had no idea the switched to being made in China! Not trusting this company anymore, they just lost another customer. BUYER BEWARE!"
,,,,,TOO TOUGH AND STRINGY FOR SMALL DOGS-CHOKING HAZARD,"My dogs LOVE duck treats and have been getting the chicken happy hips for years so I though I'd give the duck a try.  Bad idea.  The treat was too tough and stringy for my small female Westie to pull apart and she ended up choking and vomiting.  I order by subscription and had to make cuts in the strips with a poultry shear to use up the 6 bags.  I too hate the fact that these are made in China, but my little guys need extra condroitin and glucosamine so I'm back to the chicken formula."
,,,,,Safety concerns,"My dog absolutely loves these and she is very picky however I am returning them due to the numorous recent cases of illnesses and deaths occurring from chicken treats that have been manufactured in China.<br />It is NOT worth the risk to me, sadly to say I will have to find another brand."
,,,,,OMG....CHINA,"My dogs loved these treats!!  Recently my 9 yr old hound that has never been to the vet got sick.  Couldn't keep anything down and after 3 days of this we went to pet emergency.  $1200.00 later it was concluded that it was something digested.  Not possible, I spare no expense when it comes to my 3 furry buddy's!  I grabbed the bags of treats and sure enough, MADE IN CHINA.  Went to FDA web site in 2012 and they said chicken from CHINA bad but no recalls yet.  DOGS have been getting sick from chicken products from china, advised not to buy.  Called company and no return call.<br />Trashed them all!!"
,,,,,Not Sure,"My Shih Tzu loved these and I have been giving him these duck treats off and on for the past two years with no obvious problem even though they are made in China. Ordinarily I would not give my dog anything made in China, but I could not find any duck treats made in the USA. Well, recently I purchased a large package of these at a Pets Warehouse store. I would wake up and find throw up and diarrhea in the house seemingly every time I gave him a duck treat the day before. I didn't want to believe it. I thought perhaps his water bowl was slimy and cleaned it. All was well. I gave him another duck treat a few days later and he got sick again several hours later. Well, I stopped giving him Dogswell Happy Hips Duck treats and he has been fine since then.<br /><br />So, I don't know if it's just a bad batch of treats or if he somehow became sensitive to these treats or if they are contaminated with something. Not going to take any more chances with this brand."
,,,,,Great if only they were USA,"My labrador LOVES all the treats from Dogswell ! However, all of the Dogswell Jerky treats I have come across are Made In China. As a dog lover, I cannot knowingly give my dog a product from China. It does say ""cage-free"", but really? I'm not sure. BUT DOGSWELL Jerky Bars are Made in the USA & my dog loves this just as much! So bad news on the regular jerky, but upside: Dogswell has some USA products too!"
,,,,,DO NOT BUY,"My dog LOVED these treats.  Then one day, i actually read the packaging and saw these are made in china!  I feel betrayed by this company who pretends they use organic free range chicken, when really those words do not exist in chinese farming practices.  They buy meat from one of the largest makers of dog food in china, a MASSIVE factory.  And are fully aware of the FDA issued warnings about chicken products from China killing pets.  They state they test for everything, but since the contaminant has not been pinpointed yet it is impossible to test for.  Don't give your dog these treats!  Do your research and read every label CLOSELY as they really try and fool you with the fine print."
,,,,,CAUTION!!!!,"I've been buying Dogswell chew treats for my dog for several years. She's always loved them. The most recent time I purchased them, however, she got seriously ill, with heavy vomiting and lethargy. I almost forgot about it, but a few weeks later I found them in the back of the cabinet and tried them again. She got very ill again. Especially since she's rarely sick, it's difficult to ignore the link between these treats and her illness.  Unless and until there's some quality control on these, I highly recommend finding a different treat. As for the issue of 'made in china', I only looked at the packaging more carefully after reading some reviews, and in fact,the packaging clearly states that the product is made in china. I find that pretty incredulous, considering the claims on the packaging about all natural and even free range. Definately beware!"
,,,,,Chicken From China . . . No Thanks!,I wish I had come to the Amazon site before purchasing this product at my local Wegman's. The 'Product Of China' was printed so small it was easy to overlook. I am a little shocked that Wegman's (a local chain store known for quality) was selling these 'treats' in a big display. The half open package is going in the trash and unopened bag is going back to Wegman's for a refund and a piece of my mind.
,,,,,Dog went Crazy - Neighbor Dog Wants to Move In - These are Disgusting!!!!,"Ugh.<br /><br />We've been buying Happy Hips treats for our 14 year old black lab/springer spaniel mix for about a year because they are SO beneficial for her arthritis.  We bought a batch of the Beef Liver to add a little variety to the whole routine - and oh, my gosh!<br /><br />The dog LOVES these treats!  She's ready to put on a tu-tu and prance around the kitchen to beg for them.  Forget the dignity afforded to canine senior citizens - this pooch is acting like her old juvenile self!  I don't know if they are more potent than the duck or chicken treats, but they sure seem to pack some sort of punch!<br /><br />I made the mistake of giving the neighbor dog a taste.  Now she won't go away!  Every time I turn around she's at the back door looking for more - she certainly never acted this way with the duck or chicken!<br /><br />Did I mention that they were disgusting??  They ARE!  Unlike the other ""flavors"" of Happy Hips these things absolutely REEK!  And forget about them looking like ""beef jerky"" - nope!  They're real dried out liver - mostly little dried square bits that remind me of mica or shale (they're almost crystalline).  There's no pretending this is anything other than what it is - nasty gross protein of the variety that dogs LOVE!  At least it's sanitary and not the dead stuff they like to roll in out in the yard.<br /><br />Yes, I'll be forced to buy these again.  My 14 year old is rather irresistible with her old-lady gray hair, sassy grin, and wagging tail!  They are a healthy all natural treat with no added hormones, fillers or other nasty stuff.  I just wish they didn't smell so bad!<br /><br />December 2010 UPDATE:<br /><br />I'm happy to report that Ceilie is still making her way around the yard at nearly 16 years old thanks in large part to the Happy Hips brand of treats.  We were pulled out of town last winter for a family emergency and had to leave her with a relative for a week.  She didn't do well adjusting at all, so by the time I got back home I was really scared I was going to lose her.  I don't know if she had a stroke or just refused to eat, but she could barely walk and couldn't hold her head straight.  It took a week of encouraging her to eat senior dog food (a cut up hot dog plus chicken broth helps) and regular dosing of glucosamine and chondroitin via these treats to pull her out of it.  Now I have to be careful that I don't run out.  If she doesn't get her dose of these each day she goes down hill really fast.  The vitamin option doesn't sit well on her tummy so I persist in spoiling my grey haired old lady with these treats.  Amazon's prices and delivery can't be beat."
,,,,,Great supplement for Glucosamine and Chrondrotin,"Have been using this product for about a year now. My dog loves these chicken jerky treats. It's a great to be able to treat her with something she likes, as well as adding these needed supplements to her diet."
,,,,,dogslove dogswell,These treats look like black licorice and the dogs love them. Amazon's price can't be beat!
,,,,,Warning: May Be Addictive,"My dog absolutely loves these treats. We have tried many treats since we have had her, and she has never loved any of them as much as she loves these. When she is done eating one, she will stalk the bag and try to manipulate us into giving her another one. She literally goes crazy for them. I like the fact there are so few ingredients and that they do not have any grains in them. Our dog is getting older, so I feel good about the ingredients for her joints. The only reason that I gave them four stars instead of five is that they are made in China; I really wish they were made in the United States. I must warn you though; your dog may become addicted--just like mine :)"
,,,,,Great snacks!,"My dog, and the local animal shelter dogs, love these! Healthy and a good price on sale!"
,,,,,These 'treats' are Made in China,"In my opinion, its an outrage that these treats which used to be Made in the US are now Made in China. The company did not advertize anywhere about this and we only found out accidentally while looking at the wrap for ingredients.<br /><br />Let me start my review stating that many of the current 5-star ratings here look suspiciously fake (made up). Its hard to imagine anyone writing something positive about them unless they fail to see reviews clearly warning buyers about these treats being Made in China. Hard to blame Chinese to manufacture them but its Dogwells fault for not realizing dangers of making them there with their poor record in food manufacturing from the past with food poisoning in pet food."
,,,,,WARNING: These dog treats are Made in CHINA. (We gave these to our dog who was diagnosed with an autoimmune disease & diabetes),"We were shocked to find out that Dogswell a company we have been buying our dog treats for last several years have started outsourcing these dog treats to China. This is very disappointing considering 4-5 years ago when many pets in the US died due to food poisoning resulted from pet food packed in China.<br /><br />It is very surprising why this product got around 4/5 rating. I am assuming either  many buyers, like us, did not read where this is manufactured as the text ""Made in China"" is written in small alphabets and hidden in other text behind the cover OR most of these reviews in 2010 and 2011 look suspiciously 'fixed'...notice how many of them got 1 out of 1 likes.<br /><br />We have stopped feeding our dog this food out of legitimate concern.<br /><br />----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------<br /><br />Feb 2012: Just to update that our dog died recently after diagnosed suffering from Hemolytic Anemia and Diabetes. We fed our dog these treats for number of years and now wonder just how much they contributed to her illness considering these treats are NOT made in USA but China."
,,,,,DO NOT TRUST THIS PRODUCT!  MADE IN CHINA,"I had been buying my 2 year old Bichon Frise these Happy Hips Duck Treats for  months until recently when I purchased a large bag that, upon opening it, reeked of some sort of chemical substance which smelled very much like chlorine or bleach. The smell was overwhleming and disgusting. Not knowing what was wrong with it, just out of curiosity I looked on the back of the bag to read the contents and sure enough....at the bottom of the bag were those dreaded words, ""Made in China"".<br /><br />Up until this time I had assumed their treats were made in the USA, and some of them are. But after looking through all their products it seems that their duck and chicken breast treats come from China.<br /><br />Do NOT trust this product!!!"
,,,,,WARNING ---> MADE IN CHINA!,"I didn't mind paying the $20+ a bag because my dog loved them. These are so expensive that I didn't look on the bag to see where they were made until ANOTHER recent recall on Chinese dog treats/food that was killing dogs....when I looked at the Happy Hips bag, I was pretty ticked off to see that these are made in China.<br /><br />I used to joke that my dog was addicted to these, but now I am actually a little concerned that there may be some addictive substance in these Chinese ""treats"""
,,,,,has stinky chemicals,"I used to get these instore and found a cheaper deal on Amazon. I recently realize when you open the bag, there's a strong smell (like plastic or chemicals). I tried a little bit myself and the smell is just so strong that I can't bear it. I tossed everything everything away and would not buy this again.<br />It's made in China. You don't know what they put in the chicken strips to get them addicted or .... sick.<br />AVOID!"
,,,,,Beware - Made in China,"My 8 year old Maltese loved these treats.  I didn't know about the FDA warnings until after he died from a ""mystery"" illness that started out as vomiting followed by lethargy.  He had been very healthy before.  The vet did a necropsy and said my dog's liver was severely enlarged and his kidneys were also affected.  Please don't feed your beloved pets ANYTHING made in China.  If I had known about the dangers, I would never have given these to my dog."
,,,,,made in china. unsafe,"all of the veterinary products made in China are potentially dangerous to your pet.  Do not buy pet products made in China.  Along with the melamine issues of a few years ago, there have been reports of Salmonella on these so called ""treats"".<br /><br />Additionally, there are no good studies showing any efficacy of glucosamine for the treatment of arthritis.<br /><br />And Amazon should make it easier to find the country of origin of all of their products."
,,,,,dangerous product,"As many others have noted, these treats made our dog extremely ill. We could not figure out what was wrong at first. Eventually we realized the treats might be making him sick. We stopped feeding him happy hips and he almost immediately got better. We threw them out. Stay very far away from this product."
,,,,,the real review,"My puppy loves these vitality treats. After reading the other two reviews I became concerned and quickly e-mailed the company with my concerns. Here is what they replied to me which immediately relieved my worries. They also sent me documentation of their checks on the products and pictures of the non-caged chickens.<br /><br />Hello Karen,<br /><br />Thank You for contacting us here at DOGSWELL.<br /><br />The DOGSWELL manufacturing facilities meet the highest and most strict sanitary conditions. All of our plants have HACCP programs, have received high scores by independent Third Party auditors, have strict raw ingredient standards and continuously check our products during processing and when they are finished to ensure they meet our high quality standards. Our wet food for dogs, our dry food for dogs and our biscuits are manufactured in the U.S. and our treats are manufactured in China. We regularly visit our manufacturing facilities to ensure the quality and safety of our products. We are always looking to bring the manufacturing over to the United States, we have just not found a supplier who will add all of the vitamins and nutrients that we want at a price the consumer is willing to pay, once we find one, we will definitely bring it back over to the US.<br /><br />We don't determine our source country for ingredients based solely on the country of origin; we find the best quality ingredient combined with the highest quality supplier and testing specifications and select them. You can be confident that DOGSWELL products are natural, high-quality and provide the best for your pet.<br /><br />Please know we certify that our products are safe and clean with regular testing and ensure that our products meet high quality standards. We test product from each batch that is produced and have never had our results come back positive for ANY harmful ingredients such as cyanuric acid, melamine, e.coli and salmonella. Moreover, please note that no DOGSWELL product contains milk powder.<br /><br />We regularly test our products for any harmful contaminants and to ensure that they meet our quality standards. Along with an in-depth knowledge of our supply chain, our regular tests assure our customers that we are providing their pets with only the very best ingredients. Tests are conducted at independent, third-party, U.S. laboratories that follow FDA and APPMA-approved methodology. Please see attached for an example of test results for our treats; I have attached one of our VITALITY(tm) products that were tested recently.<br /><br />Our material suppliers are certified clean and clear of any contaminants. If raw ingredients do not meet their specifications and pass safety tests, then the ingredient is rejected immediately and never enters our processing facilities. Moreover, we strive to use products from suppliers that treat their animals humanely. Please see attached for an image of our chickens in their barn. I do not know of a reliable site that describes the process.<br /><br />Please know that we honestly believe that pets are family too and we feed our products to our own pets regularly. Again, we test product from each batch that is produced and have never had our results come back positive for ANY harmful ingredients.<br /><br />Please don't hesitate to contact me with ANY questions.<br /><br />Thank You,<br /><br />Jeff<br /><br />Jeff Haluck<br /><br />Marketing Assistant"
,,,,,"Dogswell Happy Hips for Dogs, Beef Liver","I placed an order for Dogswell Happy Hips for Dogs, Beef Liver on 6/25/12.  On July 5 when my current supply was used up, I opened the new batch.  Started with one pouch and then a second pouch.  For the first time the product doesn't appear to be healthy and fresh.  Instead of being solid brown, hard and crispy, the beef liver pieces are soft, pliable and some have a whitish powdery covering on them.  I'm afraid to feed these to  my dogs or other dogs that I meet in the park.  I've been buying this product for years and this is the first time it doesn't look and feel right.  I'm going to try to get an exchange hoping that this is just a bad batch.  One thing I did notice when the package arrived and that is the long, tall plastic bag was substituted with a horizontal short bag that didn't fit the 6 pouches very well.  My guess is that another manufacturer is making this dog treat, not the original one and that's the reason for the inferior and unhealthy quality of the treats."
,,,,,Chinese Product Masquerading as American,"I have bought these for a long time and felt better about the product because I believed them to be of American origin.  I purchased several bags (strips, wrapped apples, etc) and now realize the country of origin is CHINA.  With all the FDA regulations about packaging, it's about time it was mandated that country of origin be prominently displayed (like in 20 font type - not microscopic writing no one notices!!!) ON THE FRONT OF THE PACKAGE!!!  As a result, I will no longer purchase Dogswell products.  As an aside, rawhide is an even worse offender, since the dog can get a much higher dose of any toxins used in curing the hide (and you can bet there are plenty!).  I even picked up a package of a brand named (something like) ""U.S.A. Rawhide"" and on the back, in fine print, was ""Made in China.""  Why aren't our legislators doing something productive and cracking down on this?  It's sneaky at best and intentionally deceptive at worst!  Amazon, please find us products for our ""furry kids"" that won't make them sick or kill them!"
,,,,,Quality has gone downhill,"I had been buying these treats for my cavachon for the past two years. He loved them.<br /><br />The last batch was of noticeably lower quality...dry and crunchy rather than moist and chewy. I don't know if this is due to the shift in manufacturing from the US to China or coincidental. In any event, I will not be buying these any more and have switched to other treats.<br /><br />Note, Amazon would not let me return this item, and I am within the 30 day purchase period. I'm not pleased."
,,,,,Poison!  Poison!,"My dog used to LOVE these.  I thought I was was giving him a great ""treat"", that was actually a supplement to improve his arthritis symptoms.  Then, his liver enzymes were elevated, and he was becoming less active, and always thirsty.  Thank goodness a friend sent me a link about the FDA warnings, 2-3 since, 2009!<br />Hundreds of dogs have died,very painful and expensive deaths.  If you love your dog-go to the FDA  website yourself...and Do Not BUY these ""treats""!"
,,,,,Zero stars- my dog became ill after eating these,"My otherwise healthy Papillon was doing great before feeding these to him.  He is normally pretty fussy about which treats he likes, so when I found these I thought I had hit a gold mine.  However, over time, I saw behavior changes (a normally laid back dog getting first hyper, then lethargic).  I took him to the vet and they saw that his liver and kidneys were being compromised in his lab work.  That's when I started looking into everything he was eating, and noticed that these are made in China.  I did not check for this initially because I purchased them at Whole Foods, and WF has guidelines before a food can get on the shelves.  I am concerned that while these treats may not have caused death, they are having an adverse effect on some pets.<br /><br />Three weeks after I took him off these this food, his lab values returned to normal.<br /><br />I noticed several other reviews here from pet owners with similar issues to mine.  I am giving them 1 star, because there is no button for 0 stars."
,,,,,MADE IN CHINA,"Okay, a lot of chicken breast treats from China are causing dogs to be sick (see the FDA website for details).  This is not one of them, but when I started buying it, it was made in the USA.  Now it's made in China.  Although my dogs have long loved this treat, I'm in the process of searching for a replacement made in a safe country."
,,,,,FAVORITE TREAT,"By far my dogs favorite treat, it is also very healthy.  My crazy friend decide to taste it, he said it was excellent, a chicken jerky with less fat and preservatives."
,,,,,"Same product, far less money","My dog loves these things more than any other treat we've ever bought her, but they are pricey.  This supplier sells them for half what the pet chains do and shipping is free."
,,,,,Retired in Texas,"We have purchased these treats several times for our aging Bichon and been well pleased.  She loves them; however, this last batch is tough and really dried out."
,,,,,BEST COST EFFECTIVE !!! DELOUSE,"My dogs can't get enough of these and they cost 3 times more at Petco.  love this place. I am on their subscription it is so cool, i no longer have to be worried about running out. Every month here they come, it is so cool. I Love the conveinence and my Dogs (3)LOVE the goodies.  AAAA +++++++++++"
,,,,,Dogswell Happy Hips,My dog LOVES Happy Hips.  Because we have Amazon auto ship she now loves the delivery man because she knows he brings them to her.  She gets very sad if we run out. You can't get any better than Amazon auto ship.
,,,,,Our Dachshunds love em!,"We've been feeding these to our dogs for about a month now and one thing is clear, they love them! We give them as recommended on the package, twice per day for each dog. We tried giving them glucosamine/chondriotin in a different type of treat but one of the dogs wouldn't eat it. Not so for these.<br /><br />I recommend getting subscribed on a monthly basis if you want to save money.<br /><br />Big Red"
,,,,,Happy Hips,"My dog,Lucy, loves these. it's a great way to get her to take glucosamine and chondroiton."
,,,,,"Made in China, causes some concerns","I have been feeding these to our dog for years to help her with her joints, especially her hips. Ever since I started her on these as a treat, meaning I gave her one in the morning and another in the evening she regained her active self and they helped her get interested in her regular meals. It was a win, win situation for our finicky eater.<br /><br />However, I would like to note, that when I started her on these treats, they were being made in the USA. Resentfully I discovered that they are now produced in China. As we know, China produces some very high end products and some real crap as well. However, when it comes to food products that come from overseas a warning flag goes up in my mind, especially if they are coming from China. Personally I never noticed anything odd with our 14 year old dog's reaction to Happy Hips. Still, I decided that I did not want to subject her to a food product coming out of China.<br /><br />Does anyone know of another product like Happy Hips with Glucosamine (for the joints) in it, that is produced in the USA?"
,,,,,Chinese Chicken,"Plenty of articles have been written about the danger and disease's caused by Chinese made dog treats.  These treats are made in China.  Plenty of healthy USA made treats available.  Avoid these at all costs!!!  After the latest information was released, I tried to return to Amazon, but they said no.  Please do not buy these ""treats""."
,,,,,Made in China - won't buy anymore,"My dog became very ill (vomiting, diarrhea, excruciating pain) in mid-Oct and spent three days at the Emergency Vet - and cost us $3500! They ruled out a bunch of things and were only able to say that he might have Irritable Bowel Disease but the biopsy to find out for certain would cost us an additional $1800. He did recover (without the test) and came home and is on a special gastrointestinal diet now. However, I have to say that I had a large bag of these in my cupboard when he became ill and used them regularly as the treat of choice to get him in his crate. I can't say for sure that these were the cause but I won't be buying ANY dog food products (treats or otherwise) that are made in China. Treats made in the USA only for us!!"
,,,,,Healthy Dog Snack,I have been buying these treats for over 1 year and my Lab looks forward to this treat after finishing each meal.  All you have to do is mention happy hips and just watch her smile.
,,,,,"Happy Hips = Happy Dog, Thanks Dogswell!","<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AJ1ULS"">Dogswell Happy Hips Chicken Breast, Glucosamine & Chrondroitin, 15-Ounce Blue Pouches (Pack of 3)</a>My dog loves these treats!  Finally, I have found a treat that's healthy, not only for his hips, but for his teeth, also.  They're nice & chewy.<br />I read food labels constantly, and it helps to be able to read the ingredients before purchasing on Amazon.  Also, buying Dogswell in bulk (15oz./pks of 3) as Amazon offers, is the best deal I have found, so far.  My 13yr. old, 33lb. dog gets 3 chicken strips a day.  The rest of the 15oz. pkg. goes into the freezer, whereupon the next day I'm able to snap each strip into thirds - that's how Ranger Bob (my dog) likes it.  Might not be a bad idea to offer it this way for smaller dogs.  Oh, and one last thing, Ranger Bob will bury pig ears, real bones, biscuits,""green bones"" etc. but not these Dogswell strips!"
,,,,,Doogswell Happy Hips,My dogs are nuts for the Dogswell Happy Hips dried chicekn breasts but they are made in China so I hardly ever give them to my dogs.I wish the company would have them manufactured elsewhere.
,,,,,great for older dogs and she loves the taste,Great product our dog is loving a tasting treat that is good for her 14 year old bones
,,,,,Dogs loved them!,My dogs loved them. I'm not sure if it's helped their hips at all.<br />But I'll keep giving them the chicken strips to find out.
,,,,,Yummy treats for dogs,"I give these treats to my dog, and he can't get enough of them.  This is his favorite treat by far, and since it's made of chicken breasts, I feel like it's pretty healthy."
,,,,,FDA Continues to Caution Dog Owners About Chicken Jerky Products 11/18/2011,"I ordered three packages because the price was so good, then I saw this. I am asking Amazon for a refund - otherwise, they are going in the trash unused.<br /><br />Copied from FDA web site.<br /><br />FDA Continues to Caution Dog Owners About Chicken Jerky Products<br />November 18, 2011<br /><br />The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is again cautioning consumers that chicken jerky products for dogs (also sold as chicken tenders, strips or treats) may be associated with illness in dogs. In the last 12 months, FDA has seen an increase in the number of complaints it received of dog illnesses associated with consumption of chicken jerky products imported from China. These complaints have been reported to FDA by dog owners and veterinarians.<br /><br />FDA issued a cautionary warning regarding chicken jerky products to consumers in September 2007 and a Preliminary Animal Health Notification in December of 2008. After seeing the number of complaints received drop off during the latter part of 2009 and most of 2010, the FDA is once again seeing the number of complaints rise to the levels of concern that prompted release of our earlier warnings.<br /><br />Chicken jerky products should not be substituted for a balanced diet and are intended to be fed occasionally in small quantities.<br /><br />FDA is advising consumers who choose to feed their dogs chicken jerky products to watch their dogs closely for any or all of the following signs that may occur within hours to days of feeding the products: decreased appetite; decreased activity; vomiting; diarrhea, sometimes with blood; increased water consumption and/or increased urination. If the dog shows any of these signs, stop feeding the chicken jerky product. Owners should consult their veterinarian if signs are severe or persist for more than 24 hours. Blood tests may indicate kidney failure (increased urea nitrogen and creatinine). Urine tests may indicate Fanconi syndrome (increased glucose). Although most dogs appear to recover, some reports to the FDA have involved dogs that have died.<br /><br />FDA, in addition to several animal health diagnostic laboratories in the U.S., is working to determine why these products are associated with illness in dogs. FDA's Veterinary Laboratory Response Network (VLRN) is now available to support these animal health diagnostic laboratories. To date, scientists have not been able to determine a definitive cause for the reported illnesses. FDA continues extensive chemical and microbial testing but has not identified a contaminant.<br /><br />The FDA continues to actively investigate the problem and its origin. Many of the illnesses reported may be the result of causes other than eating chicken jerky. Veterinarians and consumers alike should report cases of animal illness associated with pet foods to the FDA Consumer Complaint Coordinator in their state or go to [...]"
,,,,,Happy Hips - made in China,"Just a word of warning...This product is made in China where they may add a substance that can cause serious kidney problems in dogs. Read the blog on the topic of chicken dog treats made in China - [...]. After reading the many comments posted by dog owners who fed they dogs chicken treats made in China, I am discarding all of these treats and will seek an alternative product that is made in the USA."
,,,,,Nasty and questionable: MADE IN CHINA. Read the news!!!!,"FDA just issued yet another warning for dog chicken jerky treats made in CHINA..... dog lovers, you NEED TO PAY ATTENTION!!!! We just threw our stuff in the trash......Yet another health article appeared on CNN online re: dog chicken jerky treats. I re-read the reviews on Amazon. I contacted Dogswell customer service and got a lengthy, very informative reply that said, "" A large number of our products are sourced and manufactured in the United States and only a small number of our treats, are made in China."" (My package clearly states made in CHINA --- so, did I buy that ""small number"" of bags??). I carefully weighed all the information and still do not feel comfortable. I believe the manufacturer cares a lot about dogs but how about keeping the business right here in the USA?<br /><br />We just made the decision to stop ordering this product. Yes, my dogs like the treats but I cannot, in my heart, say I can serve them to my pups. I am unconvinced that this is the best option for my dogs."
,,,,,Happy with Happy Hips Purchase,"My dog is a picky eater, and this is the only glucosomine product that he likes.  And he is always begging for more.  (But I am careful to limit to his daily allowance.)  It really seems to help his hips.  I have been buying Happy Hips for a long time, but I am so glad to find it on Amazon, as it is much less expensive to buy it in the 3-pack!"
,,,,,Chicken Jerky alternative (USA-made) to Dogswell,"I don't trust dog treats made in China.  As an alternative, there's a good chicken jerky dog treat made by Goodness Gracious - in the USA and using 100% human grade chicken.  [...]"
,,,,,My Dogs Love This and So Do I!!!,"This is one great product!  Never again do I have to force a pill or some other disgusting thing down my dogs throat to give her glucosamine.  Both my dogs love the Happy Hips, but chicken is their favorite!  This one is a winner!"
,,,,,Dogswell - Dogs love them!,"It's more than a year that I daily feed Dogswell Happy Hips treats to my now 12 year old dog who has arthritis in her hips. Her moves are more fluid now, without the 'stiff' look to her stride because of the glucosamine and chondroitin contained in this product. Plus she looks forward to getting the treats every day (her favorite is the Duck Breast).<br />I also give my dog a Best Pet Health chewable tablet every evening that contains glucosamine, chondroitin, and MSM. These products really do help my arthritic dog a lot."
,,,,,Has The Manufacturer Changed the Formula?,I have been giving these chews to my Mini-Pincher and Mini-Dauchand for the past 3 years to help support their joints and hips.  The last batch I bought is darker in color to the point of almost being burnt and smells a lot more.  It made my Mini-Pincher sick to the point of vomiting and liquid stools.  I am going to shop for a better product that is made here in the US . . . I have been looking at GNC products for Dogs and that is probably the route I will take.
,,,,,do not buy,I bought these from a large chain pet store. after reading the reviews I checked the bag... made in China. I threw the whole bag away. I wish I would have read the reviews first!
,,,,,WARNING-NO RETURNS ACCEPTED,I have been told by my veternarian that Glucosomin treats with chicken cause urinary problems in dogs and so I wanted to return 3 unopened packages (of 3 each)and the company will not accept returns.  Ridiculous.  They must know how bad they are for animals.
,,,,,FDA Warns Chicken Jerky From China May Harm or Kill Your Dog.,"STOP USING THIS PRICEY JUNK NOW!! search ""chicken jerky treats china"" on google for more info and SPREAD THE WORD (some media coverage but way too little...) I am ""fortunate""... my dog only suffered small amount of kidney damage-- others are not so lucky. Remember the Chinese pet food scandal of 2007 that killed 1000's of our four legged friends...TELL AMAZON  NOT TO SELL CHINESE CHICKEN JERKY.  I read that Dogswell was going to stop manufacturing in China tho dont know current status."
,,,,,dangerous treat,"I have been giving my dog this treat for a long time,I found it here on Amazon and it is much cheaper! Now I learned that ALL chicken treats for dogs (and also cats I believe) that are MADE IN CHINA are being investigated  by the FDA because some dogs have died after consuming them. These treats and all Dogswell treats are made in China,I researched all over the web about this matter and bottom line is: why take the risk? A few sites say it is OK, most say to be cautious and others say don't buy.I threw out all the ones I bought and got new ones made in USA.I wish Amazon gave us the choice of ""made in USA"", for now I recommend everyone that has a pet to read the labels of the treats and food. Sorry this product, I don't recommend."
,,,,,"If you want your dog to get sick, buy these","These treats literally made my dog sick, throwing up everywhere. And it wasn't a shock when i read the package which stated Made in China. Weren't chicken treats for dogs that are made in China recalled?"
,,,,,Happy Hips Make My Dogs Happy!,"My dogs all love the Dogswell Happy Hips Chicken Chews, they can't wait to get them and know where I keep them, they go straight to the cupboard where they are stored. I love giving them these treats because not only do they love the taste and gobble them up, I feel good knowing they contain healthy ingredients that will give them stronger bones.<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001AJ1ULS"">Dogswell Happy Hips for Dogs, Chicken Breast,15-Ounce Pouches (Pack of 3)</a>"
,,,,,Great stuff - Uno loves it!,These treats are a wonderful way for me to keep my old dog moving. He enjoys them and I enjoy being able to give him joint supplements and the benefit of real meat in his diet.  Thank you Dogswell for this great product and thanks to Amazon the good price.
,,,,,Awful advertising - THESE ARE MADE IN CHINA... NOT USA,My dog loves these treats but we recently found out these are made in China. Chicken jerkey products from China need to be avoided. I threw out the rest of these as a result.  Stay away and buy something American made.
,,,,,Do not buy this product!,"I have been giving my dog these treats for years, thinking I was giving her something healthy.  I took her to my vet because she has been having bladder issues.  That's when the vet told me not to give them to her because they were made in China.  She said dogs have been getting sick from eating jerky treats made in China.  I can't believe I have been poisoning my poor little dog!  I will never buy another food product from CHINA!"
,,,,,Now made in China.,And they are DRASTICALLY lower in quality.  Do a brief search on the equivalent of the USDA or Dept of Animal Welfare in China.  Guess what?  No existo.  DO NOT BUY.
,,,,,Honey is a Happy Dog!,"My little Shih Tzu, Honey, can hardly wait to get up each day! Her first order of business is to sit for her Happy Hips chicken breast strips. She gets two every morning and this starts a happy day for her. Buying it direct from Amazon is about 1/3 of what local vendors charge! Wonderful, pure treat!<br />CCW"
,,,,,Great product. AMAZING PRICE!,"I have been giving this to my dog every day for about 2 years because he has a patella problem. His limping has completely stopped as a result, not to mention he cries for it! Definitely his favorite treat by far. I was spending more than 1/3 the price at the local pet store for just one pack! I should have checked Amazon sooner! This is an amazing price. I will be buying this here exclusively from now on."
,,,,,LOVE LOVE LOVE Dogswell products!,"I found Dogswell products 7 years ago when my vet recommended the Glucosa-Chondro chicken strips to help my dog who had just had patella luxation surgery on both his knees. The vet said the supplements would help my little one avoid arthritis in his later years. I'd say so! He's pushing 8.5 yo and doesn't show any signs of slowing down even though he has pins in both knees. He jumps high, runs like a maniac and is spry as a pup. Between this and various other dogswell treats that care for his eyes, hair, coat, breath, teeth, etc, he's going strong which makes momma very happy. All in all, I love these products and recommend them to all my friends who have dogs."
,,,,,Vet says NO,"These had been my dog's favorite treats. BUT when she developed vomiting and diarrhea, the vet strongly suggested that I reconsider these treats because, quote, they have been tied to some serious health problems. She asked, are these the ones made in China?  I said yes, and she said she wouldn't take the chance.  I just threw the last (full) bag into the garbage. Please don't take a chance with your pup!"
,,,,,Dog treats,Both dogs love the nutritious treats. The chicken breasts are used sparingly.  Good inducments for getting the pups into the bathtub or out of the house.
,,,,,made my dog sick,After finding out whats in Beggin Strips these were recommended to me by a client.  I am a dog groomer.  My Standard Poodle had two this morning and has been vomiting along with diarrhea all day..  enough said..
,,,,,Would not buy again,"I ignored the other reviews about how these were now being made in China - I had checked the warnings and was comfortable that Dogswell hadn't been mentioned.  I've bought them many times, and my dog loves these treats!  Unfortunately, the most recent batch I got last week smelled really awful - like a mix of chemicals and rotten meat.  None of the bags I've gotten before smelled anything like this, and it was so strong that it filled my apartment with the odor.  I threw them out and would not recommend buying them.  It's not worth the risk."
,,,,,Dogs LOVE it!,"My dogs love these treats more than any other. I see that some of the ingredients are sourced outside the US, but these days it's very hard anything with a Made In America tag.<br />I love that the treats have the bonus of doing something for their senior hips and joints.<br />Overall, this is a super product and with subscribe n save there is no better price anywhere."
,,,,,dangerous to your dog's health,do not fed your dog any happy hip = dogswell product - it is not safe - google it<br />if your dog has eaten them regularly have the vet do blood work
,,,,,My dog loves these,"Great price compared to the supermarkets.  My dog loves these and they seem less processed than most dog treats.  I don't know if they really help his hips, but he is a golden retriever (a breed prone to hip problems), so hopefully these will help as he gets older."
,,,,,dogwell treats,"Have been very pleased with this product, only some times they are softer then they should be...I like them when they are harder..."
,,,,,Makes Great Pastrami,"I used this to make homemade pastrami. Very hard to find locally and online. If you are dry curing meats this is necessary.  Made excellent Pastrami many times next I will have to try Bacon ""the maple Kind""."
,,,,,No flavor to speak of.,"Kamfen Noodle King -Beef flavored soup. This noodle soup comes in a carton waxed paper bowl. Included are noodles, and three flavor packets. You add boiling water after you add the packets of dehydrated vegetables, spices, and a paste of some sort.<br />  The noodles were starchy, and there was little or no vegetable flavor. The beef taste was probaly beef bullion cubes. All in all, a soup with very little flavor and my guess, high in sodium.<br />  There are much, much better ramen noodle soups available. You can cross this one off your list."
,,,,,Excellent quality,I love this tea. It's delicious and is one of my favorite teas. I like its aroma and taste. I drink it both after and between meals. Highly recommended.
,,,,,Deliciously toothsome,"Wonderful stuff--cook it just like rice in a rice cooker to make rice or porridge. It has a wonderful texture, very toothsome. I use it like rice, heated with milk and sugar, and add a cup of cooked grain to my multi-grain bread.<br /><br />Note that the packaging has one typo in English. What is labeled ""Gordon Euryale Seeds"" in the ingredients should be ""Gorgon Euryale"". This ancient foodstuff is the seed of a water lily, grown in China for 3,000 years. Botanists named the genus ""Euryale"" after a mythical Greek Gorgon, sister to Medusa."
,,,,,don't be a fool,"I love calypso lemonades, especially the strawberry and ocean blue but I would have to be a fool to order them for 60+ dollars when I can buy the same 12 pack at the corner gas station for $20.  I went on line hoping to find a better price than the $1.69 I was paying.  This is not a good deal unless you are paying $5.12 a bottle"
,,,,,baby gaining weight quickly,My premie baby born at 29 weeks weighing 1 lb 15 oz is gaining weight very nicely.  I breast fed for the first 4 months and fortified the breast milk with Neosure powder. I had to go back to work and placed him on the liquid formula.  Now he is on just Neosure every 3 hours. He is now about to turn 7 months and still not ready for solid foods but doing great with Neosure. He weighs 12 lbs. He loves this formula. I'm thrilled with his progress. Also I love the ease of use of these disposable bottles.
,,,,,useful item,"I have used this in many different ways and I like its ease of use and the fact that its a pantry item.<br /><br />That said, it doesnt have the texture of fresh cooked chicken and Ive found it best in things where its either mixed with something - like a chicken salad - or added into soup.<br /><br />I dont think it works well where a genuine chicken texture would be wanted (ie a stir fry or a chunky item where the chicken is in large peices)<br /><br />I think this is a very good item and worth having; just be aware that it isnt a perfect substitute for fresh cooked."
,,,,,"A good, quick source of protein","My husband is always hassling me to eat something good with protein, as I am a carb lover.  These white meat chunk chicken in cans are great, because I'm terrible at meal planning.  All of a sudden, I'll be hungry NOW, with no time to cook.<br /><br />So I open a can of this Swanson chicken, drain it, dump it into a tupperware, add a couple heaping tablespoons of lite Miracle Whip, and start mashing at the chunks with a fork.  I scoop up the newly made chicken salad with saltine, Ritz, or butter club crackers.  Ta-da, instant protein-filled meal.  This chicken would be great for serving to kids, too.  I ALWAYS have cans of this in my cupboards.  I can add some more flavor by adding ground black pepper, mustard, relish, and other kitchen staples.<br /><br />It is cheaper at my local stores.  But, if you can't get out to the store, I've always had great service from amazon!"
,,,,,"If you have this in the pantry, you've got a quick meal.","This canned chicken is the perfect thing to make a quick salad, sandwhich, or toss into a soup for lunch or dinner.<br /><br />While it will never replace a roast chicken in the oven ready to be served, it's got a nice chicken taste. It's just not as firm as regular chicken you prepared yourself.<br /><br />If you remember to keep a can or two in your desk at work, you won't be without some solid nutrition in a pinch. Try it cold with some yummy salad dressing and a few crackers!<br /><br />Swanson Premium Chunk Chicken Breast is an excellent buy."
,,,,,Next to Fresh,"I ordered the Swanson Premium Chunk Chicken Breast in Water, White Meat, 9.75-Ounce Cans (Pack of 12) and my family and I absolutely loved it!  This was, without a doubt, the best canned chicken we have ever eatten; and it is the closest to fresh we've ever tasted."
,,,,,I'm impressed.,"For years I've walked by the tuna aisle in the grocery store and seen canned chicken.<br />My initial thought was...ewwww.<br />It just struck me as just plain wrong that chicken would be stuck in a can.<br />Then out of curiosity I picked up a can and......as soon as I opened the can it was like a revelation.<br />I drained it and no chunks came out with the water.<br />Sure enough I opened the can and all I saw were juicy chunks of white meat.<br />Perfect for salads, stews or soups.<br />I made a chicken salad for lunch and it was delish.<br />I can't wait to make some homemade chicken noodle soup this weekend.<br />Cheap and tasty.<br />Recommended."
,,,,,Great product to have in your cupboard and a good price,"Update:  Please note per my information below: product description and photo are no longer accurate.  The product has a sealed lid, not a ""pop-top lid"" and the amount of protein and sodium have changed.  See below for the correct information.  I have notified Amazon of this error.  Somehow 5 grams of protein have been ""lost"" from the can contents.<br /><br />I purchased the 4.5 ounce can of Swanson white premium chunk chicken breast on sale at CVS - buy one, get one free for $3.00 ($1.50 per can).  This large size can 12-pack works out to be a better deal even though it's not a sale price and subscribing to purchase this product on a schedule reduces the price per can even more.<br />I am wondering if the person who commented that the meat was a mixture of white and dark meat ordered or received the wrong product since there is a similar product available for a lower price that is a blend of white and dark meat.  This 9.75 ounce net weight can contains all white meat and just the right amount of broth that's easy to drain off or use.  The chicken looks appealing and it tastes mild and flavorful. It is great for making chicken salad sandwiches or for adding to soup or any other food item.  The meat flakes into small pieces easily, so you may not want to add it to your soup stock until just before you are ready to serve it.  It would also make a good filling for enchiladas, tortillas or quesadillas.  I have no problems at all with the taste or texture of this product.  It is appealing when you open the can and it would work well for many recipes or quick meals or snacks.  For those who don't like tuna, it's a great alternative.<br />Basically, it's chicken when you need it ready to go, and it is a good source of protein with very little fat.  One can contains 5 servings with each serving containing 50 calories, 9 grams of protein, 1 gram of fat, 25 mg of cholesterol (8% of DV), 1 gm of carbohydrate and 260 grams of sodium(does that include the broth?).  If sodium is a concern, consider adjusting the amount of salt that you add to your recipe or maybe you could even lightly rinse the drained chicken in a strainer.<br />It's certainly better than buying luncheon meat and keeping it for too long!  It's fresh when you need it.  I have a couple of cans stored in my refrigerator now. This chicken contains no MSG and no artificial flavor - just less than 2% food starch and sodium phosphates.(okay sodium phosphates may not appeal to some)<br />Update:<br />Just opened another can and added it to a healthy variation of macaroni and cheese.<br />I haven't tried the concoction yet, but the chicken looked wonderful when I opened the can - appealing light pink color and chunky bits of meat like baked chicken breast."
,,,,,Damaged goods,"At least half the cans in my last order arrived in a crushed condition; not just dented but caved in. The inner and outer cardboard cartons that they were packed in were not damaged, so the cans had to have been damaged at the time the cartons were packed by the manufacturer, and not damaged during shipping. The can condition was such as manufacturers commonly donate to food banks, knowing that retail supermarket shoppers would not touch them. Perhaps disposing of such product through Amazon.com rather than taking a charitable writeoff is a more cost effective strategy for a manufacturer. Buyer beware when buying products sight unseen. The chicken itself was OK."
,,,,,Not as good as other canned chicken,"I have purchased numerous canned chicken products before, and of course none compare to real chicken.  However, that being said, this product's quality is considerably below that of most canned chickens.  Other canned chickens have large chunks of white meat, while this product is full of small discolored pieces with pieces of what appear to be skin or fat.  Considering the price is also higher than the store bought competitors, I can not recommend this product."
,,,,,"Good Product, Good Shelf Life","Received these in March 2012 and the expiration date was August 2013, so I got nearly a year and a half recommended shelf life.<br /><br />The chicken is good quality and is flavorful. Great for chicken tacos, burritos and chicken salad. Quick and easy, I rinse the contents.<br /><br />There is nearly 50 grams (10 grams per serving and the serving size is 2 ounces) of protein in each can which is one reason for selecting this product. I keep a year supply of food on hand and these fit in nicely with my food storage and rotation efforts.<br /><br />I also ordered the Tyson canned chicken and was very pleased to note the Tyson arrived at the same time and has a February 2015 recommended shelf life. I like both products and recommend both."
,,,,,Great shelf staple ...,"I used this a lot for white bean / chicken chili, chicken salad, fettuccine alfredo with chicken and mushrooms.  The flavor is very good, it's low-fat, the sodium count isn't outrageous, and it works well with a lot of things.  Yes, I prefer using fresh chicken breast, but when I don't have any on hand or can't get to the store, this works very well."
,,,,,Useless to me...,"I bought this to ship to me in Afghanistan, since it would be easier than asking my wife to go to the grocery store and then to the post office. Good price and fast shipping, but now I have to order a can opener. The item image depicts a pull-tab can which was my main concern, but the package that arrived did not have these tabs. If this is your concern, like mine, then don't buy.<br /><br />As for the taste or quality of the meat, well I'll just have to wait and see."
,,,,,Great snack food...,"this is great for a sandwich, with crackers, & my wife uses it in a pasta casserole. It is also economical."
,,,,,Great chicken in a hurry!,"I've always been a snob when it comes to my chicken; nothing but fresh chicken would do for me. Then one day I found an amazing recipe which oddly enough, called for canned chicken. I trusted the source of the recipe so I bought a couple of cans at the store, and I am SO glad I did. This stuff is great.<br /><br />It's true that it doesn't have the same consistency as freshly cooked chicken. It feels more like rotisserie chicken, as it tends to fall apart very easily. This is actually great for casseroles! I prefer it over the texture of sauteed chicken.<br /><br />All in all, I'm very pleased with the product, so I came to Amazon and bought a whole lot of it to put in my pantry. It was delivered, for free, in two days! Thanks Amazon!"
,,,,,Good product,"I love Swanson Premium Chuck Chicken Breast, I keep it in my pantry, it is good for chicken salad, I use it in casseroles where chicken can be used..good flavor, and nice amount of chicken in the can, some products are more liquid then product. Not this one."
,,,,,Please Never Discontinue This Product,"When it became difficult to find this product in our local grocery stores, I panicked until I found it on Amazon.  This has a MUCH better flavor than any other canned chickens I've tried.  For years it has been a major staple in my kitchen & desk drawer.  For a quick, guilt-free snack, it's tasty just smashed up in its own broth.  Mixed with some relish & either mayo or ranch dressing, it makes a delicious salad to eat alone, in a sandwich, or on crackers.  My elderly/feeble parents loved it microwaved with various tuna helper flavors as an easy main dish.  This is great in all of my favorite cooked chicken recipes, & it's always in the pantry, ready to use on short notice, but keeping just fine (unlike refrigerated alternatives) until it's needed.  When I can't incorporate the broth into whatever I'm making, I usually drink it, because it's too flavorful to waste."
,,,,,"Not as good as other brands, texture too soft","I like the convenience of having canned chicken on hand. It's great for soup or salad. However, I found the flavor of the Swanson's canned chicken to be good, however, the texture was so soft, it just seems to mush away into whatever you're making. My kids LOVE chicken salad, and they were so happy to see I had just made some. One taste and they were like, what's this? Why is it so soft, so mushy. I bought a dozen cans, so I have to finish them up and we will be eating mushy chicken salad for awhile. I don't recommend this product."
,,,,,contains raspberry juice,"If you are going to take Noni take pure Noni, not one with juice added, I didn't read that it contained the raspberry juice"
,,,,,excellent!,"This is my daughter's favorite. Lindt chocolate is one of the best I know on the market. But: this time I want to review also this shipper. This shipper deserves 10 stars!<br />The chocolate was shipped on days with extremely high temperatures and I was worried in what shape it's going arrive to. Surprise was on my side: all chocolates were in zipped food storage bag, which was inside of small styro-foam cooler together with 4 ice packs. And all that neatly accommodated inside of clean white carton box.<br />When I opened the cooler, the contain was still very cold! I could not be impressed more. And all that effort for value of $30 merchandise with the free shipping!!!! WOW!!!"
,,,,,The best chocolate,The best chocolate that I have ever eaten. Arrived in perfect condition. If there would be more stars - it deserves them all.<br />Love it.
,,,,,Sinfully delicious!,These bars are huge! The price is phenomenal for the amount and quality of chocolate and nuts.<br />I'm glad that I went for the quantity to get the best deal. I can always put a couple bars in the freezer.
,,,,,unbelievable chocolate,"Huge Chocolate bars would be similar to 5 regular chocolate bars and twice as thick, a bargain at the price really. The best tasting chocolate I have ever had."
,,,,,best chocolate,you can never be disappointed by Lindt. Especially their Hazelnut ones.<br /><br />this one has full hazelnuts in it. crazily delicious. got to try
,,,,,Simply the BEST!!!,"What can I say....Luscious milk chocolate, melt in your mouth ecstasy, with yummy crunchy hazelnuts.....10.5 ounces of pleasure!  Even better than that, a five pack, with FREE SHIPPING! That's the cheapest price I have found anywhere!"
,,,,,Just Perfect,In the beginning I tried to cancel the order because I felt that it was not what I wanted exactly which is (Lindt Gold Bar).<br />But It was a great surprise to find in the package what I wanted exactly. The image here is an old one that should be updated.<br />The packaging was great with thermal insulation and cold packs for the chocolate not to melt in the hot summer.<br />the price is really the lowest. I searched the internet to find a better price and the best I got was 7.50 usd per each + shipping.<br />That's why I said it is JUST PERFECT. It made my day
,,,,,Tasty chocolate but too few nuts,I'm a long time fan of Lindt chocolate which I like the most among inexpensive and widely available brands.<br />This mikl chocolate is very tasty. My only small complaint is that there are far fewer hazelnuts than the packaging makes you believe ... probably on average one nut per large quadrant (the picture on the packaging shows 4 nuts per quadrant)!
,,,,,Typical product,This is good smooth harissa.<br />This brand is the most commonly found in France and my Moroccan Grandma was swearing by it.<br />I would get a lot more if the shipping charge were not so ridiculous!
,,,,,Le Cabanon Harissa,"Harissa is a very spicy North African red-pepper paste condiment, typically made at home or bought in jars. This is an item to use sparingly, brushed on grilled meat or vegetables, or mixed into sauces and marinades.<br /><br />I had bought a tube of this brand at a specialty store in Berkeley, but was not able to find it again. The other brand I could find was adequate, but the texture was too pasty and the flavor not so fresh. I was delighted to find Le Cabanon offered for sale here. The shipping price for one tube was in my opinion prohibitive, but the product stays fresh indefinitely in the sealed tubes, so I had no qualms about buying six at a time. This brought the price per tube to about a dollar less than I'd paid in the store!"
,,,,,It's delicious!,"I love this sauce, I saw it from the food network and found it at Amazon.  can't stand the shipping charge, the sauce itself is cheap though.  I rubbed it on stake, I can taste tomato and garlic with heat in it, it was sooooo good!"
,,,,,Not spicy at ALL!,Either I got 15 tubes that came from a bad batch lot or they are not selling the right Harissa. I bought 15 tubes thru Amazon from Parthenon Foods and used 4 of them so far and after putting the whole tube it still isn't spicy at all. Normally a whole tube would get you to sweat a bit!!!!! This seems to be a case of false representation. I buy these tubes in Canada at the grocery store all the time when I am up there and they provide a nice kick and spice (as they should). What's up with dat?
,,,,,"Bought in quantity, tubes deteriorated within 6 months","To purchase these, you must buy 6 tubes and pay expensive shipping costs.  I was excited and willing because I love this flavor, but over time, I realized the unopened tubes were leaking on the box and the boxes were sticking to my pantry shelf.  I threw them all away which made it a complete waste.  I would have tried to rescue the paste earlier by putting it in plastic tubs and freezing or SOMETHING.  BTW, the expiration date on the unopened tubes was 16/11/2012. (European labeling)  The tubes appear to be about to explode which leads me to believe there could be possibly be bacterial contaminants?  I don't know, but something made these packages leak on the crimped edges. Obviously, I would not recommend OR buy them again."
,,,,,Wonderfully unique.,"A truly tasty medium heat paste that is delicious on a wide variety on food.  From mixing with yogurt for a dipping sauce to serving on eggs, mixed in with vegetables, or spread on sliced beef, this is excellent!  It has a slightly grainy texture from the ground spices, and has just the right amount of salt and garlic.<br /><br />Delicious!  I ordered four more!"
,,,,,"This is flavored tomato paste, not Harissa","I wish I had taken Tamdidelam's review more seriously before ordering. My family has a vacation home in Tunisia. I always bring some Harissa home with me, either in a glass jar or in a tube. I was excited to find this on Amazon, but it has nothing in common with the original Harissa. Harissa is a pasty substance that is very hot - way hotter than Tabasco or other brands of hot sauce common in the US. Harissa contains seeds of chili peppers. This product is barely spicy at all and the consistency is more like tomato paste. Tomato is listed as the main ingredient, hot pepper (piment) less than 8%."
,,,,,Flavor of N. Africa!,I love the tubes of hrissa!  There is much less waste and the flavor is just as wonderful as the same product in the cans.
,,,,,The Perfect Finishing Touch!,"I was making Valentine Brownie Pops for my Grandsons' classroom party. I dipped them in white chocolate and sprinkled with Wilton's Micro Heart sprinkles. After the chocolate set I put them in individual bags and tied them closed with a red bow.<br /><br />I could not believe how many Moms asked me where I bought the Brownie Pops. I usually find fault with the presentation of my homemade goodies but I have to admit, these turned out awesome and did look professionally made."
,,,,,wonderful snack,"These miniature hersheys are delicious, PERIOD. Very satisfying for a Diabetic, as well, although not a low calorie snack and fairly expensive."
,,,,,Horrible taste - better stuff available,"I have tried several different types of sugar-free chocolates and this is one of the worst.  Instead, I recommend the Dove dark chocolate and the Russell Stover coconut."
,,,,,Excellent coffee,"My wife and I have been ordering Larry's for over a year, and we're very happy with it.  It's very good quality, consistent roast, and with ""subscribe and save"" discount plus the free shipping, at Amazon, it's about $9 a pound delivered whenever we want it.  It's also Fair Trade and Organic, so you can feel vaguely happy for some coffee grower in a far off place while drinking it.  Great coffee, convenient availability, we'll be ordering this as long as they keep sending it at this quality and price."
,,,,,Great Coffee!,"I began purchasing this coffee at a small boutique coffee shop not far from where I live.  Now I have 5 lbs. of it delivered to my door on a predetermined schedule.  Life's good!  The coffee is amazing, only for you die hard coffee drinkers though."
,,,,,"Danger, danger, Will Robinson!","I've sampled several varieties of Eden Organic beans; this is the only one which i found to taste truly awful.  Of course taste is subjective, so your mileage may vary.  My advice, before committing to a case purchase, is to first sample this variety by buying a single can from a local store.  If that's not an option for you, then you might consider moving on to another variety.  I can recommend their black, pinto, and great northern beans.  If you're looking for something out of the ordinary, you might consider their <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000HDMUOE"">Aduki Beans</a>.<br /><br />I like the fact that all Eden Organic beans are in BPA free cans.  Too bad that not all their canned products are BPA free (e.g. as of this writing, Eden canned tomatoes, soups, etc. have BPA linings)."
,,,,,simply peas,"I like these peas for having nothing but the pea in the can. Read the sodium levels on a can of beans these days, might as well drink sea water. Yes these are bland, no bacon, salt or artificial flavors, simply peas. A pinch of salt, some spices, rice & hot sauce or mayo like my granddad adds and I can make lunch or dinner from a can of these puppies. I keep these to wolf down on days I have gone too long without food and need something fast. Stock trading does not lend itself to eating healthy or at all most days. Canned blackeyes are fast, filling and healthy but will not rock your world flavor wise. For me they fill the nutrition hole and keep junk food from finding my mouth, that alone makes them 5 star."
,,,,,Simply Delicious,"Peas came in good condition. Cans were not dented and the peas themselves were not mushy. Great for quick meals and a very reasonable price compared to the cost per can at a regular grocery store. Other pros include: BPA free can,organic, no added salt, limited ingredient list (peas,water,seaweed). Please note that you can't even tell the seaweed is in the can. I flavor mine with a little onion and garlic powder, a pinch of sea salt, and freshly ground black pepper. Add a little liquid smoke for a smokey taste without added fat,sodium,or meat. All in all a good product."
,,,,,Tasty,I like these. They are not gas-producing and they hold shape OK for canned beans. Flavor is good. Love that they don't have added salt.
,,,,,I made burrito with this.,"I made a vegan burrito and it tasted almost like burrito, but the more I made this recipe, the less appetite I became with this bean. I guess it's good once in a while.."
,,,,,Plantars is always great!,"We've had great success with all of the cashews we've tried. In doing the work as far as our best buy, the (4)16oz are a better buy than these at 21oz pack of 2."
,,,,,cashews,great product  fresh and delivered on time  will buy again  k
,,,,,Decent Price,"5 stars for the product. But how can Target with all the overhead that Amazon doesn't have sell cashews at a lower price? Okay, if you add sales tax the price difference narrows. Still, why buy from here when Target has a better price, even including sales tax?"
,,,,,Check the cost first!,"I just bought the same two items at my local store for<br />less, except they were not marked value pack."
,,,,,Best Graham Cracker I've Ever Tasted,"I bought these on super sale because I needed them for a pie crust and they were cheap.  I got the 3-pack and was at first dismayed to find that they were not packed like other graham crackers are usually packed, they were loose in a bag, not stacked in bricks to fill the box  -- this meant there were many less per box than I had anticipated.  But when I tried one I was immediately impressed, they taste fantastic!<br /><br />These taste nothing like the kind of graham crackers we were fed in kindergarden, they have actual flavor and are much more than just an ingredient or child's fare.  What these lack in volume they make up for in quality.<br /><br />I immediately ordered three more 3-packs while they were so cheap, I have a toddler at home and am happy to supply us all with these wonderful graham crackers.  They do not have any scary fillers or ingredients; they are made with butter and not trans fat, and you can snack on nine of them with your coffee for only 130 calories -- not bad!<br /><br />They also make a pie crust that is noticeably better than what I used to make dessert crusts with.<br /><br />I was so impressed at what Stonewall Kitchen could do to a graham cracker that I am going to check out other products they make."
,,,,,tasty but too pricey,These are pleasantly sweet with a nice vanilla/cinnamon flavor.<br />They are good for eating but not for making pie crusts. I won't<br />be buying them again as they are too expensive for the amount<br />of product you get. Shame because I really liked them.
,,,,,Excellent treat,These are a good cookie. I was hoping for something lighter but in all they had a good taste but no real crunch. Unfortunately just about every cracker arrived broken or nearly smashed. Perhaps we will add them to vanilla ice cream.....
,,,,,"Tasty, but small and not very many for the price.","I ordered these to make s'mores. I liked the ingredient list, no HFCS. However, they come more like a box of Wheat Thins.<br />They are not large enough for s'mores, and many of them are broken upon arrival.<br />They do taste good though, as a sweet snack."
,,,,,These are to die for!,Very delicious! Made with butter so the caramel taste is excellent! The nuts are the topping on the cake! Yummy!
,,,,,Childhood memories,"I was thrilled when I found, Walkers Brazil Nut Toffee, online at a good price. This brought back good memories, as it was a favorite of my Dad. I will be buying more. Highly recommend this toffee."
,,,,,great alternative!,"I have a gluten allergy and can't eat regular pasta.  After trying some pastas from my local market, I had given up on finding a tasty alternative.  This pasta is great.  You don't even taste the difference.  I make it for my friends and they don't know.<br /><br />The only thing is - it get softer faster than regular pasta so you shouldn't let it sit, or you shouldn't plan on saving some to eat the next day.  It might be too soft by then."
,,,,,"WOW, I didn't know peanuts could be this good!!!","I'm a big fan of most nuts and especially peanuts, but these are the crunchiest, most flavorful peanuts that I've ever had, and just lightly salted, very light, only a little bit of oil. They're ""dangerously delicious"", like it's hard to stop eating them. You'd better buy the 3 or 4 can pack because the fisrt can will be gone in a few minutes."
,,,,,Nuts about these nuts,"These peanuts are so far superior to the ones in the supermarket, there is no comparison. Once you taste them, you won't go back.<br />Really delicious."
,,,,,Not a good batch,"I wonder if I got a bad batch?  I go these with the ""Gold Box"" deal they have going.  Maybe they're not quite as fresh, been around in the warehouse too long or something?  Because these were not near as good as the other Virginia Peanuts I've had or ordered from Amazon in the past.  The ""Royal Oak"" in the blue can is what I got last time and they were much larger, not broken, crunchier, and just better tasting.  Seemed silly to return 2/3 of the order, and they are not really awful, completly fine actually, but my expectations were for a premium product. Fairly decent peanut, but these are suposed to be the best.  They were not.  Going to order the Royal Oak next time."
,,,,,Peanuts,"The best peanuts I have ever purchased, tasted, or served.  Shipments are always fresh and the company offers several flavors."
,,,,,Best peanuts I've had so far in my life,"These are the best tasting peanuts I've so far had in my life.  They possibly could the best peanuts ever but I haven't tried all of them yet so I'll hedge my review there.  The peanuts are crunchy and fresh and just right salty.  So much better than anything I can buy in my local supermarket, which stocks only large brands like Planters.  There is a reason these are more expensive - the taste is superior, it's just on a different level.  Try these, I bet you won't be able to eat another supermarket peanut again."
,,,,,I think. Therefor I am a peanut.,"Are you living to Eat or eat to live type of guy?<br />Well, if you'r either then you're just lame.<br />I....WE are all Eat Peants forever mofo types.<br /><br />So, buy these peanuts. And get down with the<br />Eat Peanuts forever mofo type, mofo."
,,,,,"Good, but not as good as Whitley's","I prefer handcooked (read fried) peanuts to dry roasted and these are very good. however, they are not as fresh and bright-tasting as Whitley's peanuts which are not sold on Amazon at the moment, but can be found at gourmet shops. You would think they would be the same, both being from Williamsburg and all."
,,,,,A nice product,"I like these peanuts. What impressed me most was that there was an oxygen scavenger inside the tins thereby maintaining the freshness. Also, the manufacturer recommends storing the peanuts in a refrigerator which I think is a good recommendation especially since peanuts are prone to becoming rancid.<br />However, I would like to add that since these are lightly salted peanuts and if you are used to eating the regular salted peanuts, there is a marked difference in taste.<br />A beautiful package too. Recommended!"
,,,,,"Nice nuts, good size for portion control, salted just right for me","These are nice large nuts, well roasted and salted. I like the 12 ounce size and the three pack is nice. I get them on subscribe and save and the price for this quality peanut is good. I use them for snacks and for cooking stir frys and making lettuce wrap fillings. Good size to throw in your bag to take to a game, or put in your car for starvation emergencies."
,,,,,is there such a thing as overcooked peanuts,"These peanuts are rock hard.  I ate a handful of peanuts and got a bad stomach ache.  They don't taste bad, and not salty at all. I don't understand why they are so hard.  Ouch.  I love the peanuts from Costco.  They are also extra large and delicious but they never hurt my stomach.  Must go back to them."
,,,,,OK peanuts,"I have bought many brands on peanuts on Amazon. I was a tad disappointed in this brand. The Peanut Shop Of Williamsburg. The over all flavor was ok. Not a strong flavor but not weak. I found the salting to be a little on the light side. That's fine with me, I use most of my nuts in kung-pow type dishes, and the lower salt is fine. The crispness was very poor for a hand cooked kettle peanut. It really should have more crunch/snap.  Over all this is a step up from Planters cocktail peanuts. But you can do much better with other brands."
,,,,,slightly disappointed,"The peanuts were of average quality. They were large enough and salted properly, but they were hardly crisp. In my opinion, they are still better than those that you will find in a supermarket, but nothing really exciting."
,,,,,They're ok,"Nothing spectacular here. Unlike the other reviewers, I found mine fairly salty. I think I'll try other brands before considering buying this again."
,,,,,delicious,I think that these are the best peanuts I have ever tasted.  Just enought salt and most of the nuts are still whole.
,,,,,Change in size of product,"I have been receiving Peanut Shoppe of Williamsburg peanuts through the Subscribe and Save plan.  When I first ordered them, each can contained 12 ounces of product, but the most current shipment reduced the size of the product to 10.5 ounce cans and kept the price the same.  I think that is a bit misleading. If there is less product, why isn't it less expensive?"
,,,,,"Peanuts Good, Cans Dented!","I opened the box with the 3 cans of peanuts and all 3 cans had a large dent on the side. There was no damage to the box so obviously the cans were damaged prior to the packaging. At least the peanuts were OK. Maybe we are being sold ""seconds"" through Amazon by this company. Buyer beware or you may receive peanut butter rather peanuts from this company."
,,,,,Fontinella Cheese,"I moved from Michigan to Georgia and had not be able to locate Fontinella Cheese. I found it on Amazon, have since ordered it several times!  The cheese was mailed from Parthenon Foods.  And where better to get cheese from than Wisconsin!  Thanks Amazon and Parthenon Foods!"
,,,,,Cream of Tartar at a bargain price,"I bought this for cooking; from whipping egg whites to making my own baking powder, this cream of tartar is great.  I put some in a small jar in my cupboard for everyday use, the remainder I keep sealed tightly in the freezer.  It will last quite a long time, and buying it this way is exponentially less expensive than buying the small, over-priced jars in the grocery market."
,,,,,Knorr Bernaise,"For years I have used Knorr Bernaise sauce packets with steaks that I found at the grocery store.  I found it to be quite expensive (about $5.00 a packet plus milk and butter).  Upon researching some other food products, I found it on your site.  It was about 1/3 the price of the in store packets. Over time we have also started using it with chicken, even on baked potatoes, and it is delicious and makes anything you use with it taste more ""special"".  I will buy again and again!  Thanks Amazon!!!!!"
,,,,,Excellent Product,"I've always used Knorr Bearnaise Sauce, but lately couldn't find it anywhere, so I ordered it online.  Great taste, fast shipping."
,,,,,Amazingly Lifelike,"I grew up in a diabetic household so I have always been aware of the difference between ""people"" food and ""diabetic"" food. Of course it was only recently that I was put on the non-people stuff exclusively.<br /><br />These candies are surprisingly satisfying. I have a doc who says artificial sweeteners are for those who haven't yet admitted that they aren't allowed to have a sweet tooth any longer. May be true but these little candies are quite nice.<br /><br />They are, in fact, hard. That is a nice change from diabetic candies when I was a child. They have a decent mouth feel and an almost caramel taste. I don't catch an aftertaste. So, when I ""need"" a fix, these are nice to have around the house. Won't mistake them for ""people"" candy but these really are amazingly lifelike."
,,,,,LOVE those Sugar-free Werther's !!!,"I am so excited to find that I can purchase Sugar-free Werther's from Amazon !!!  They are delivered right to my door and I dont have to go out and buy them from some store.  They have such a small amount of calories, and so much better for anyone.  And they have that wonderful creamy caramel taste that is my favorite hard candy.  I will order them again and again from Amazon."
,,,,,Good diet candies.,"Low carb, no sugar, and delicious.  They satisfy a sweet tooth and just one will suppress any feelings of hunger for several hours.  A good substitute if you're used to snacking."
,,,,,"Tasty, but for those sensitive to sugar alcohols, beware!","In trying to cut down on sugar, I have tried several products that contain sugar alcohols and found that I do not tolerate them well. As in gut wrenching pain and embarassing gas attacks. I know that some people can consume these products with little effect but I am not one of them. I don't know what I was thinking except that maybe it has been a few years and perhaps they have made new strides in sugar alcohol technology.<br /><br />Unfortunately for me, these are so tasty, I ate several in the first setting. In a car with two other people. On a long drive. Let's just say I won't be doing that again any time soon. For those who are not troubled by sugar alcohols, enjoy!"
,,,,,Taste Like the Original,"These small, individually wrapped candies travel well and pass for the real (delicious!) thing.  They give a lot of pleasure and are easy to fit into many food plans. I think they taste better without that side of guilt I know so well.<br /><br />And, unlike the sugar free chocolates, I don't seem to be so inclined to abuse them, maybe because, as a hard candy, they last well in the mouth.<br /><br />All in all, it's a nice indulgence."
,,,,,"Taste great, too expensive","I love these - they taste great.  But I get them in the local Dollar Store. Two stars for the value, five for taste."
,,,,,garbage product,It isnt even wroth being sugar free. my stomach is aching and I am getting so much gas. I would rather stick with the normal werthers. I cant believe i bought 12 bags of this crap...
,,,,,Love them.,"I eat these whenever I feel the urge to ""snack"". It's really satisfies any cravings and does not have an after taste."
,,,,,"Low in Calories. Weak Caramel Taste, Sorta.","I eat very little candy, but every once in a while I can't resist. Well, sometimes I'll try a candy substitute and on my last trip to the grocery store, I spotted some bags (2.75 ounces) of Werther's Original Hard Candies (Sugar Free). They're very low in calories. Okay, are they any good? Well, they taste a little like a very weak creamy caramel hard candy. I tired of them after the third one. They have a bit of an illusion of candy, but just don't match up. I doubt that I'll finish the bag. Oh well, maybe it's for the best.<br /><br />Gary Peterson"
,,,,,"Candy good, reaction bad","Well, I love hard candies, but not the sugar. My husband & I saw these and thought we'd found the perfect solution. Unfortunately, the candies -- while very tasty -- played havoc with our systems. We couldn't eat more than 8 at one time (5 for me) without getting crampy & gaseous. At first we didn't realize it was the candies causing the effect, but that changed quickly. We had to discard the rest of the product. What a shame."
,,,,,Good as original but no sugar,"Do you love candy, but are tired of all that sugar? Well, Werther's Original has a ""Sugar Free"" version that is the best. Unlike most sugar free candy, these taste exactly like their sugar cousins and there is absolutely no after taste - none. You don't realize that they are sugar free unless someone tells you they are. Perfect for diabetics who want a snack but can't handle the sugar. Keep a package handy and you'll not be sorry."
,,,,,My new favorite cookie from Pamela's,"I've been eating gluten free for about seven years, and a couple of Pamela's cookies with a cup of decaf have gotten me through my 4 p.m. ""low"" many times in those years. When I first discovered them, I loved all the shortbread styles. Then I moved into the chocolate chip versions. Most recently it was the peanut butter, with and without chips.<br /><br />I love them all, but this raisin and walnut cookie may be my all-time favorite. It's tender, chewy and generously studded with nuts and raisins. Unlike some of the others, which can be a little sweet for my taste, this one seems to rely on the raisins more than sugar for sweetness. After eating one or two, I feel like I've eaten something that might be good for me (and not just totally self-indulgent).<br /><br />Like all the Pamela's cookies, they're a little pricey, but the prices here on Amazon are definitely the best I've found. (Likewise for the Bob's Red Mill GF bread mixes, which are also wonderful.) Thanks, Amazon, for your great selection of GF foods."
,,,,,Pretty Good High Quality Cookies,"I think these taste pretty good. There are lots of nuts & and a few raisins in these slightly bigger than bite sized cookies. You get 54 cookies for the price, so it is sort of pricey but they use quality ingredients so it is probably worth it."
,,,,,Just like Archway cookies!,"The Old Fashioned Raisin Walnut cookies are a delicious soft cookie, very simlar to the Archway soft cookies I used to eat in both texture and flavor. I wish Pamela's made a date filled, that would be perfect! I have to be careful with these or I will eat a whole box in on sitting."
,,,,,Not my Fav,"I wanted to like this cookie, it's very moist & chewy, has plenty of raisins & walnuts, but something about the flavor just doesn't appeal to my palate.  I'll stick to the ginger & peanut butter.  Like Pamela's other gluten free cookies, the texture is wonderful & can't detect that they are gluten free."
,,,,,A safety concern,"I am a fan of Pamela's gluten free products and have been happy with all of them until I got the Raisin Walnut Cookies. I just received the order a couple of days ago. I've eaten four of the cookies and they are very good tasting. However, in two of the four cookies I found myself chewing what presumably was walnut shells! I could have easily chipped or broken a tooth.<br /><br />Pamela's makes some great products but this one is ""risky""."
,,,,,Excellent taste,I have been using this product for years and was happy to find it on line since our local place (Bristol Farms) had closed.  I love it especially in my salad dressings.
,,,,,Essential spice for everyday cooking,"I absolutely cannot be without my Spike - it is my one essential seasoning and I use it on almost everything.  Buying it in bulk is cost effective and insures that even when I can't find it in the stores, I'll never run out."
,,,,,Spike works better,"I have used Spike as a seasoning for many years, and when I moved to NY, started using cheaper brands that were convenient.  However, I have never like them, and decided to go back to Spike simply because the flavors it brings to my food are so much better>"
,,,,,Spike is the BEST seasoning you can buy!!!!,"Want a seasoning you can put on EVERYTHING?  Spike seasoning is absolutely one of the best things out there since buttered bread :)  Very, very good :)"
,,,,,Good Value,Very happy I made this purchase.  It is exactly what you think it is and is a good value.  Arrived very quickly.  Spike is honestly the best.
,,,,,The Best,I have tryed other multifuncutional seasoning and nothing surpasses spike.<br />The taste alone will amaze you. I use spike on every and all things that I cook even eggs.
,,,,,Spike Seasoning is great TNA,"I have been using spike seasoning for about six years.  And I think it is just great, I use it on almost all meats, in soups and stews, on caserolls."
,,,,,Cheetos for kitties,"Kitty loves these a lot and demands them morning and night. She doesn't really like to eat anything else anymore, although I make her. I am sure they are very bad for her, and wonder what special poison Purina puts in them to make them irresistible. These are constantly out of stock, and I can't buy them in any store in town. They are crack for kitties."
,,,,,Deliciously different little wafer cookies,"I'm a recent convert to Bahlsen cookies, and these little wafers are a standout among a product line that's hard not to love.  The crisp. toasty, slightly nuttly wafers surround a very light, not-too-sweet creme layer; the combination is an incredible, multi-dimensional treat that would pair nicely with coffee or milk.  The only thing I would think that would make this product better is a resealable package, but the wafers aren't going to last long once opened anyway.  The package size is good in the sense that it's enough to share with one or two other people, but if you eat the whole thing yourself it's not an utter disaster ;)"
,,,,,"Great, healthy snack","These crackers are a great way to get whole wheat into your diet & into children's.  They are low in fat & sugar, and they taste great.  I haven't met a child yet who doesn't like them.  The ingredients are good as well."
,,,,,DEEEEEE-FREAKING-LICIOUS!,"1.  I love  Amazon's grocery/makeup/cleaning products subscription service.  It is only beta now, but I truly hope they will continue it.<br /><br />2.  This cookie is amazingly delicious.  I like sweets that aren't too sweet, with just the right hint of sugar.  These are cookies just like that.  Like Creme Brulee -- barely sweetened, but if it is done right, the sweetness makes it the best food in the world.  I'm not saying these cookies are Creme Brulee, but maybe they approach the creme brulee of cookies."
,,,,,Light and Tasty!,The Bahlsen Delobas are my favorite so far. Call them biscuits or call them cookies they are just plain good. Light and pastry like with a nice burst of sweetness from the red current jam. Try Them!
,,,,,Delicious!,"I had these cookies in Germany, but I had a hard time finding them in the US.  I was amused to discover I could order them from Amazon.  They seem to be most closely related to pecan sandies, but they're a little richer and a little moister.  I wish it were possible to order a single box instead of 12, but I already knew I liked them, so ordering 12 wasn't really a problem.  A bigger problem is trying not to eat them all immediately."
,,,,,Very Good!,Great texture and balance of sweet to butter is just about right. Adults and kids both love them. Recommended
,,,,,These cookies are $2.19 in my SuperMarket,We were buying Bahlsen cookies at $1.70-$2.19 at lockal supermarket until I found that they are $1.41/box here at Amazon!
,,,,,JBERTSIESFAVS,"If you love the heavenly combination of chocolate and orange, then this<br />is a cookie to try.  Gotta have your coffee and treat everyday like moi.<br />Well this plays well with coffee. Yum gonna have some right now...."
,,,,,The Aroma! The Taste!,"The title says it all! These butter biscuits are DIVINE! Everyone loves them--my parents, my students, my colleagues, and, of course, me! You will love them, too!"
,,,,,Best cookies in the world,"These cookies are fabulous. Flaky, not too sweet, fluffy not gooey layers. Small but not too small. Suggested serving size of 6 is good. Lots of things these days have completely unrealistic serving sizes. I know they have sat fat but I really don't care. I have been unable to find anything like them. They remind me of REAL bakery cookies."
,,,,,Awesome butter cookies!!!,These are every bit as good as the other two reviewers stated. Awesome butter cookies!!! There's a lot of butter taste in these cookies and they're not overly sweet. Just right! I'll be buying again when the 12 pack runs out. Amazon please make sure you keep these in stock on a continuing basis!
,,,,,Top Drawer Treat,"These Bahlsen Butter Leaves are the best cookies! Not too sweet, not greasy, soooo ""just right!"" Order extra! They go fast!"
,,,,,I love it,I love this chocolate covered cookies. The chocolate is pure and tasty. Not too sweet.
,,,,,I love butter cookies.,These cookies didn't disappoint.  They are delicious and go really well with a cup of tea or coffee.  They have just the right amount of sweetness...not cloying.  (I think American desserts usually go overboard on sugar).  I highly recommend them.
,,,,,Tea Biscuits,Love these tea biscuits. The price was great for a box of 12. I hope you continue to carry.
,,,,,unusual chocolate treat,"i tried bahlsen chocolates in europe, but you can't find them very often in the states. these are unlike any usa chocolates i've eaten, the wafer is wrapped over itself 4-5 times. you can't beat the crunch these make, delicious."
,,,,,excellent superlight substitutes for palmiers,"Many of Bahlsen's cookies are too sweet and floury for my taste, but these light flaky cookies don't taste stale and are not too rich but are nice and do not taste like sugared cardboard.  I don't crave these but when you eat them, you realize that these are better than the average boxed cookies and unexpectedly delicate and fresh tasting given the supermarket price."
,,,,,Arrived melted/stuck together,The title says it.  Some of the cookies arrived with the chocolate melted.  Others were stuck together or had the wafer separated and stuck to the chocolate top of the cookie below.  It appears that the box was a little overheated and banged around somewhere along the way here.  It was 65F here when the package was delivered.
,,,,,Memories of Germany,Having grown up on these cookies I was pleased to see that they now come in the more healthful whole wheat version.  Same great taste...light on the sugar...even my husband who hates sweets will eat these with his ice cream.
,,,,,The perfect cookie,"Rich, dark chocolate thinly covering a tart orange marmalade-like substance on a soft sponge cookie. It melts in your mouth and leaves you wanting more. Chocolate and orange are an addictive combination.  There are other brands out there of these sponge cookies, but the Bahlsen brand is by far tops in the quality of the ingredients used."
,,,,,die nuss ist los,"Have always enjoyed Balsen products. Found  the nuss-dessert cookies while on vacation at Sanibel Island Florida. We were really excited to find them on Amazon, we had searched through out the Chicago area since last April.<br />They are the best. Taste like fresh hazelnuts and are great with either coffee or tea. (or later with wine).<br />So good that I bought a case, but they are reserved for special moments(like now)."
,,,,,Best Cookie in the World,This is without a doubt the most incredibly addictive packaged cookie in the world. The dark chocolate dipping at one end is a great contrast to the rolled wafer of the cookie itself. Why did I ever buy a whole case! Bless Amazon for carrying the Bahlsen line of fabulous cookies because it is not available in Montana.
,,,,,Really Light Cookie,"If you are looking for a sweet, try this cookie.  It is extra light<br />and has a nice crunch to it.  I buy these cookies by the carton.<br />They last for one month between my husband and I.  He likes cookies<br />with his morning coffee.  We are both satisfied with these cookies.<br />Would buy them again and again.<br /><br />Mary"
,,,,,Oh my !,"These are soo good with a nice cup of coffee. They are light, buttery and very flavorful with the finely chopped nuts."
,,,,,addictive biscuits,better than grahm crakers and they do not spike your blood sugar (at least not mine.)
,,,,,Absolutely perfect!,Once you try this piece of chocolate you will fall in love with it. Probably one of the best nonbar chocolates produced in Switzerland and Europe as a whole. And I think it is rather cheap for the quality you get.
,,,,,yummy cookies!,We've ordered for them every month and only once the package inside the seal had a small hole and wasn't as fresh.
,,,,,Amazingly light & Delicately sweet,"The first time had these cookies was when I visited NYC.  One box of these cost me around $7, so when I found these on amazon.com for about $1.40 per box, I was so exstatic!  I could eat an entire box without feeling full of sugar or guilt.  Perfect with tea as I am not a coffee fan.  There are several reviews that I have read that were complaining about the number of boxes they received (12)- it says right in the product title how many boxes come in the order!  Do people really not read anymore then turn around and have the gall to give a bad review just because out of pure stupidity they failed to read what they were actually ordering?  I am appaled by some people's idiocy until I remind myself that I live in the United States.  Besides, why would anyone complain at $1.40 per box?  I HIGHLY recommend these to anyone, I would give 10 stars if I could.  Oh, and be glad they come in shipments of 12 boxes, they will be gone before you know it!  Thank you, Amazon!"
,,,,,The Best Cookies!,"My husband and I have been buying these cookies locally for years because we love them so much; they are far better than the milk chocolate version (but then, we love DARK chocolate!). In the past couple of years, our local grocer has stopped carrying them, we would request them, they would get them for a few months, and then they would stop carrying them again. I am so glad to see that I can get them via amazon.com! These are wonderful cookies with warm milk, cold milk, or a little Scotch . . . mmmmmmm!"
,,,,,Milk Chocolate cookies,This product was delivered on time and included more than I thought I was going to get - a full 16 packages. I first purchased these in England and have loved them ever sense.
,,,,,I love these cookies. Found them in Sherman .Texas need them in Centennial.Co. Albertsons had them in Sherman.  Sssooo good!!,Will always buy these if I can find them. Hate to have to buy from Germany. Need a grocery store.
,,,,,Bahlsen Truffet cookies,I was not very happy when i recieved my order. All the cookies were melted. Very good product. Word of advise. Don't buy any products in the summer time that will melt.
,,,,,Love the taste!  Love Hazelnuts!,I grew up eating these cookies.  Got a case for a great price.  Will be looking for them again this fall.
,,,,,De-Licious with perfect packaging,"Leibniz cookies are truly my favorite, beyond what I make, I am a passionate cook. The whole wheat version of these are particularly superb with a subtly greater flavor than the original and a lovely, slightly more crumbly and grainy texture. It has been a wonderful discovery. Bon appetit."
,,,,,Great cookies--don't buy in the summer,"These are positively the most delicious cookies ever--smooth milk chocolate covering meringue biscuits.  However, when we received them--albeit in the Texas summer--they were fused together in the packaging. They are now not only less attractive, but also hard to eat.  So I would not recommend ordering these in the summer with the way they are packaged by Amazon."
,,,,,Wonderful Taste,"It tastes perfect. I like it.<br />You would ""feel"" the butter in the cookies."
,,,,,Yummy!,"Great cookies.  Not overly sweet as most American cookies can be, with a hint of citrus.  Could not ask for more.  There is only 12 or so cookies in the box, but a decadent treat."
,,,,,YUM- like a perfect Rice Crispy,"If Rice Crispy bars were made with good chocolate, and didn't taste like wax, they might taste like this.  Wow- What a yummy treat.  These are coated with a LOT of chocolate, and for me are more like a candy than a cookie (and I don't have a problem with that!)  I would not have wanted to order them in the summer, because I feel sure they would have melted.  The chocolate taste is wonderful, and I love the crunchiness.  The Sell By date is not until 9/2010 a full 8 months from today (1/21/2010), so I'm pleased with their freshness.  I don't think they will last very long in our house, but still, it's nice they are fresh.  These are packed very well, so they should not arrive crumbled or damaged in any way.  My cookies are perfect.  If you like crunchy chocolate treats this is for you!  Delicious!"
,,,,,Great- and good Sell By date,"I'll start with something really important to me- the sell by date.  I bought these cookies in January of 2010, and they are good until 9-2010, which is important to me, since I hate eating rancid food, so I just throw it out.  I've always loved these cookies, and my market sells them for much more than the subscribe price, so I'm happy to subscribe and save.  I love currants, and it's hard to find things flavored with them.  I have to admit, the currant taste is not strong, but they are delicious anyway, and I love the puff pastry.  Further, I'm allergic to GMO corn starch (genetically modified corn starch)- and just try to find cookies in US stores without corn starch (and 95% of all corn is modified in the US, and does not have to be labeled so).  So these are a real treat for me- since they are a cookie I can actually eat.<br /><br />The cookies are flaky, as puff pastry always is, and slightly sweet.  As other people have said, this is not a terribly sweet cookie, but it is quite sweet enough.  I enjoy mine with tea, and I also take them in my lunch.  If you take them in your lunch, put them in a little box- because they ARE delicate, and you might end up with delicious crumbs if you don't protect them.  I know this because I squashed them once."
,,,,,So delicious,"This very crispy sugar wafer is perfect with ice cream, or with coffee or tea.  It's got a lovely burnt marshmallow flavor.  I really like these- they seem to harmonize with anything.  I'm allergic to GMo cornstarch, so it is hard for me to find cookies I can eat.  This one is lovely, and it's safe for me to eat."
,,,,,Absolutely Wonderful!,"These have a delicate, nutty, warm, faintly sweet wheat flavor, and a pleasing texture.  Satisfying without guilt, they're truly addictive.  I prefer them to digestives (much less Graham crackers), and even Leibniz's standard butter biscuits don't come close.  The whole wheat is especially good with green and pouchong teas - though predictably satisfying paired with a cup of Assam or English Breakfast. Also great with cocoa or milk, cheese or apples.... a slather of peanut butter..... !<br /><br />They're one of the few biscuits I'd definitely offer to children."
,,,,,Delicious!!!!,these cookies are a perfect treat....very light and crunchy wafer sweetened by  the right amount of chocolate....great price and fast service
,,,,,Best Store-Bought Cookie Available,If you've had these cookies already - no one needs to sell them to you. I would just recommend that you keep them in the freezer. That way they're sort of hidden from you (and others) but for some reason freezing them brings out the taste and consistency of the chocolate. Try it!
,,,,,Bahlsen Dark Chocolate Cookies -  A Treat,"I don't know what Bahlsen was thinking over the last several months, but I looked high and low for these cookies in supermarkets and specialty stores...none were to be found. Then, after checking with Amazon (and its tracking mechanisms), Voila! I ordered a whole case and that should satisfy our deep appreciation of these cookies... a perfect blend of high quality dark chocolate and a crisp, thin ""chocolate vehicle""--i.e., cookie."
,,,,,Delicious decadence!!,"These are great!  And they can get to be habit forming if you are not careful.  I bought the whole case, because you save overall  versus going to the supermarket.  Very rich dark chocolate, crisp cookie.  Worth every penny.  Oreo, eat your heart out!"
,,,,,Love these cookies!,"These cookies are just wonderful!!! The chocolate is deep, dark, rich and melts very nicely in your mouth.  I would say that it is a bittersweet chocolate and very finely made. These cookies give the chocolate lover a satisfying chocolate experience. Do not hesitate to buy them!"
,,,,,Good with coffee,"These appear to be, on first glance, similar to Nutter Butters.  On taste, however, they are lighter, more delicate, and infused with hazelnut.  There is more air in the cookie, so when you dip it in coffee, it becomes saturated rather quickly and the cookie folds into your mouth, with the sweet center taking center stage.  Nuff said."
,,,,,Bahlsen Waffeletten Cookies,I am very happy with Amazon service including the speedy shipment. I am also very happy the product Amazon is carrying. This product is only available in selected specialty stores in the area. And tend to be expensive. Sometime they only carry small selection in store. You have to wait long time for a special order. Amazon is making the product available with a wide selection of variaty and affortable. Thanks.
,,,,,Delightful cookies,A light and crisp flaky cookie surrounding a brightly flavorful nugget of jam. The only problem - I can eat a whole box without stopping to breathe! And buying them by the case makes them very affordable. My next order is already in...
,,,,,"Light, flaky & delicious",I first had these cookies at our Oktoberfest where they were giving out samples.  I loved them and could not find them at World Market so I went to the internet and found them available at Amazon. They are very light and flaky.
,,,,,delicate biscuits,"When we couldn't find these in our local grocery store anymore, we were very glad to find them available through Amazon. these are light and delicious and a true treat!"
,,,,,"Rich, but delicate,  hazelnut (filbert) cookies that everyone likes !","Buy more than one box - these disappear fast! Bahlsen Biscuits are elegant, impressive, and delight everyone. I keep some on hand for unexpected guests and these ""Hazelnut Biscuits"" have never disappointed anyone! (Betcha YOU could eat a whole box yourself!)"
,,,,,"Oh, so very very very VERY good","I LOVE these cookies.  Most cookies are too sweet for me -- not these.  However, since they follow the  European trend of using  natural ingredients, they are full of saturated fat from butter and cream.<br /><br />WHO CARES?<br /><br />They are the best cookies, for me, in the world, comparable only to<br />""Feullitees Doree,"" which can be bought on in France."
,,,,,broken cookies,"I bought these cookies for myself and as a gift for my dad for his birthday. Unfortunately, 2 out of 4 of the boxes I gave my dad as a gift had mostly broken cookies, and were stale tasting. Not a great gift idea, and not really packaged or handled well. I have bought the delice cookies in the past and had no problems other than a random broken cookie in a box. I have not opened all of the boxes yet of course, but will hope to find a couple that are not all broken up to give to my dad."
,,,,,"Light, Flaky & Tasty GOOD Cookie!!","I really like these cookies.  They are made with pastry dough - lots of thin, flaky, crispy layers with a very light coating of honey (or something like honey).  The jelly center rounds the cookie out with a delicious bite of sweetness. It's a robust burst of flavor that makes you want to smile. I am rapidly getting addicted to these fine flavorful confections -- bet you can't eat just one!"
,,,,,Rather Bland,"I am an adventurous person who likes new things and when Amazon began selling the Bahlsen line I tried a number of their products and found them to be enjoyable and tasty, but the Hannover Wafer Cookies are, to my palate, rather bland and tasteless. The texture is pleasing, though a little grainy tasting and the creme filling has little flavor. They're very high in saturated fat, and  devoid of flavor..Think I'll stick with the Bahlsen Delobas'."
,,,,,bal,"Bahlsen Butter Cookies,4.4-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 12)<br />Very Disappointed with your service and deceptive listing of the product ingredients. i am allergic eggs and as per your listing, there is NO mention of eggs and when i received the product, on the box the cookies one of the ingredient is EGG.<br />Also i emailed not send me any cookie with EGGS"
,,,,,bal,"Bahlsen Delice Cookies, 3.5-Ounce Boxes (Pack of 12)<br />Very Disappointed with your service and deceptive listing of the product ingredients. i am allergic eggs and as per your listing, there is NO mention of eggs and when i received the product, on the box the cookies one of the ingredient is EGG."
,,,,,Hazelnut (Filberts) in a fragile crescent shaped tea cookie.,"Delicate ground hazelnut cookies for a Ladies tea, NOT for children or most men! Appreciated only by sophisticated palates, because they are neither cloyingly sweet or fatty. Set these aside for unexpected guests you'd like to impress."
,,,,,"These ""Butter Leaves"" are addictively wonderful!","Amazon sends you TWELVE boxes of these fabulous cookies and each box disappears FAST - in fact, DO NOT sit down with the whole box nearby or you will munch thru all of them without stopping! They are delicately sweet, crunchy, and buttery - without being at all greasy. You've been warned!"
,,,,,"Great, bold coffee",This Gevalia French Roast coffee is fresh tasting and bold!  It's fantastic considering its preground coffee.  I really love it!
,,,,,You can taste the quality...,"I absolutley LOVE Gevalia coffee and was SOOOOO happy to see that it is available on Amazon for a reasonable price!  It's cheaper than in any local store. I am definitely a coffee connoisseur and find Gevalia to be the best coffee on the market. French roast has a very deep, bold taste so if you like a more mild flavor, try the Traditional roast... you won't be disappointed!"
,,,,,Coffee Lovers Beware,"I purchased this coffee on sale at my local Vons. They had it on sale for $4.99 a bag so I bought four bags -- can't beat that price, right? I figured, how bad could it be?<br /><br />It is beyond bad. First, if this is ""French Roast"" coffee than I'm Angelina Jolie. There is not on identifiably French Roast aspect about it. The taste is nothing short of horrid. I tried making a pot with more coffee and one with less coffee. Nothing worked -- it's just awful.<br /><br />I am taking back the three unopened bags as this is just undrinkable. I threw the open bag away.<br /><br />This is how bad it is: I have a can of Folger's in my pantry for those emergency mornings when you wake up and learn you're out of coffee. I poured out the Gevalia and made a pot of Folgers and it was better than the Gevalia. Since Folger's is barely drinkable, imagine how horrid Gevalia is.<br /><br />Save your money. It's not even worth buying when it's on sale."
,,,,,A very fruity prune!!!,I wanted to try these prunes and was truly suprised at the taste they imparted. They are semi-sweet with a fruity perfume like aroma. The reason I gave them 4 stars is that they have a fairly large pit and it does take care in eating them. Caution: this is not a small child food!!
,,,,,God sent for minor digestive issues,"I have to warn that my review is going to sound like I sell this product.<br />I wish I know how to make them but I don't.<br /><br />Next time you have minor digestive issues or stomach gas or nausea try one of these babies!<br />Just put it on your tongue and take in the juices.<br />You will feel better in 5 minutes.<br /><br />Just a little bit of history.<br />When I was growing up, I knew them as Al Bukhara.  My father used to regulary eat them.<br />50 years later, when I recently had stomach ailment, I remembered about them.<br />My wife found them at a local middle-east store under the same name. They are made in Iran.<br />Unfortunately, the store stopped selling them and had to look for an alternative and found the golden prunes from Sadaf.<br />They are not as good as Al Bukhara but next best thing and work well.<br /><br />I have been using these for two years and they work every single time.<br />But watch out, they will make you hungry; I am not kidding!<br /><br />Now, here is the most important thing<br />I found that not all dried prunes are as effective. In fact most of them don't do anything.<br />The prunes need to be moist, golden or light brown and soft. Sadaf also sells pitted prunes; don't buy them for relief from digestive issues or just to clear your stomach.<br /><br />Amazon has been out of stock for a while now.  I buy them locally.<br />If you don't have access to such a store, Sadaf sells them online."
,,,,,mold in food!,"<a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001EQ5M3Y"">Sadaf Pitted Prunes Black, 12-Ounce Packages (Pack of 4)</a><br /><br />This item was full of mold (fungus) on reciept!"
,,,,,"doesn't cook up quite as the recipes describe, but . . .","I purchased this red quinoa on a special deal here on Amazon, partly because I have a Vegetarian sister and a friend with gluten allergies, and so I'm always looking for new dishes that we can all eat and enjoy.  I'd never cooked quinoa before, though I'd recently sampled the white variety in a couscous dish at someone else's home.<br /><br />So far, the prewashed red quinoa seems to require longer cooking than most of the online recipes suggest, and I haven't been thrilled with the taste of the quinoa alone or with a few spices.  I read online that this red variety has an earthier flavor, and I'm not sure that it appeals to me.<br /><br />On the other hand, this is such a good source of nutrition that I've continued to experiment with using it in combination with other ingredients, where the quinoa flavor can be mixed with other tastes I enjoy more.  I don't regret buying this, but I'm not yet ready to replace rice or pasta or oatmeal in my diet with cooked quinoa only."
,,,,,Nuts Over These Nuts,"I can't say enough about these nuts, they are fantastic!  I stopped buying them years ago because they were way too expensive but at Amazon's price I'm now a subscription customer.  The only problem with these nuts is that once you open the can you don't want to stop eating them.  They have a Kona Coffee glaze and have just a hint of coffee flavor. I highly recommend this product."
,,,,,Mauna Loa Macadamia Coffe Glazed Nuts,My husband cannot get enough of this product.  He practically licks the can clean!!  The nuts are delicious and Amazons prices and shipping are the lowest.  You get your order in a remarkably quick time.
,,,,,Macadamia Nuts,I was not able to located these specific nuts (coffee glazed) at any store in Seattle where I live. So I checked Amazon and sure enough they were available and at a fair price. I ordered them on line and they arrived in good shape when you said they would. All in all a good experiece. Thanks
,,,,,The Most Addicting Food I've Ever Had,"I don't have many vices or bad habits, but when I first tasted the Kona Coffee Glazed Macadamia Nut I was not only hooked but I found myself thinking about them when my stash ran out. This is something that makes me salivate, and once I start eating them I don't want to stop. These should be on every shelf in every grocery store, but sadly, the only way I can find them outside of Hawaii is via mail order."
,,,,,Delicious,"When you have to look for some nuts on amazon.com because you can't find them locally, that says loudly how good they are.  I bought a variety pack of four flavors when I visited Hawaii, and the coffee glazed is my favorite.  So I am buying here and got the subscription so I will receive them every six months :)"
,,,,,Kona Coffee Glazed  serious num-nums,"Kona coffee glaze macadamia nuts are ""serious num-nums"".  I consider it my ultimate treat and I like to treat myself."
,,,,,Great!,"If you love Macadamia Nuts you know they can be $$$ but you will still pay because there is a difference with Mauna Loa.  I ordered these and the butter toffee.  They tasted as good as when purchased in HI.  The price was amazing!  I will order more.  They are the smaller cans that you find in the store.  Fresh, tasty, quick ship and you need to buy six cans because you will easily eat two cans the min. you get it."
,,,,,nuts to you,"These are as good as ever. Both my son,my wife and I just love them. I just wish I could get them in a larger size. Amazon beat all other prices by $10.00 The only way to get a better deal is to buy them in HAWAII"
,,,,,Best Macadmia Nuts Out there,"These are the best of the mauna loa collection.  If u like coffee, this is the one for you.  These are soooo addicting that u just can't eat a few. 1st bought these in Hawaii, and didnt try it till i got back and once i tried them, i said, i should've bought more.  Now, i found that amazon sells it, i am a happy camper.  Love this stuff."
,,,,,Hooked on Mauna Loa Kona Coffee Nuts,I am addicted to Macadamia Nuts.  I have a standing order to send nuts every 3 month.  Mauna Loa Nuts have been always fresh.
,,,,,Mauna Loa Coffee Glazed Macadamias,These nuts are to die for! And I agree with the other reviewers ... they are absolutely addictive. I'm not a coffee drinker so I wasn't sure I'd like the taste. But they are delicious. Just barely a hint of a coffee flavor to them; it's more of a caramel flavor.  I can't wait until these are available from Amazon.
,,,,,"Bananas, for baby... or for space flight",Anyone searching for stage 3 of gestational banana trajectories would be well advised to procure this item immediately.  It is an essential purchase.  That is all.
,,,,,Hollow and hard!,The bag we received from Amazon had hollow biscuits and were harder than the ones we purchased from a local store.  Were these a reject batch?  Certainly over baked or dried out!  Our bichon had a hard time biting into it.
,,,,,Great Dog Treat...Quality and Condition when received questionable,"I have to say my golden and cocker love these treats and they are great for dogs, like my cocker, that have allergy issues and need higher quality food. I bought these at a specialty dog store for 3.00 more and the treats seem to be more solid than the ones I got from Amazon. The delivered treats were not consistent and many were hollow inside. This isn't even mentioning the fact that half the bag many of the treats were badly broken up but I can look past that versus the quality. Great treats and the dogs don't complain about my complaints :)."
,,,,,Bad Batch of dog biscuits?,"It appears Amazon may have gotten a bad batch, or they are very old.  I was excited to find these as my Husky-Shepard has allergies to Beef & Chicken and these did not contain either.  They are expensive, but I decided to try them.  When I opened them they have all sorts of holes (looks like air holes) in them and the dog (66#) had a hard time chewing through them.  I think she liked the flavor, but biscuits shouldn't be so difficult to eat. I saw several other people with the same comments, so I believe either Amazon or the manufacturer needs to figure out what is happening with these.  Had they been $1.00 a bag I would figure I got what I paid for."
,,,,,good product,"Shame on me for not checking out the price before buying.  Paid $3 too much.  But it is a good product if you have a dog with allergies.  My dog loves the treats.  Will definately buy this product again, but not from this website."
,,,,,My Dog LOVES These,"My little dog has allergies; but I recently read, where sweet potato products<br />are digested easily and rarely cause problems to such an animal. So, I decided<br />to try these.  Honestly, if I offer him two or more different treats at once;<br />he chooses this one FIRST EVERY TIME !!  And NO stomach or bowel problems.<br />I'll be buying these again & AGAIN !!"
,,,,,Some of the bisquits were hollow-not solid as they should be,The last bag of these I got from Amazon had a lot of hollow bisquits.  It was weird ......  they just weren't solid like they should be.  I'm going to switch to another brand of grain-free dog bisquits now as there's no sense in paying for something I'm not getting (and these are expensive!)  And if it wasn't for the good packaging I'd wonder if bugs had gotten to them..... but I don't think that's possible.
,,,,,DEE-LICIOUS!,"According to my pups' discerning palates, ""Natural Balance Sweet Potato and Fish Formula Dog Treats"" are the only ones they've tried, that they'll sit up and beg for more!  Since both of the pups are only fed GRAIN-FREE diets, I was determined to find a comparable biscuit/treat formula that would not interfere with the benefits they've enjoyed since becoming members of the high-protein, low-carb community.  Viola! This superior dog biscuit recipe contains only 7 primary ingredients and when you open the bag, the aroma of smoked salmon lets them know to come a'runnin!  Now, they're eager to try the other flavor combos created by Dick Van Patten's company.  Thanks to the Van Patten company of dog lovers who want only the best nutrition and taste for their canine companions.  Applause!"
,,,,,Hard to find,"So I order through Amazon and wah-lah instant ""happy"" and tasty too. Not pasty/powdery tasting as other instants and the full flavor of pistachio comes through to compliment desserts."
,,,,,My dog loves them,My dog absolutely loves these treats and he goes nuts every time I bring them out.  Not sure if they are helping his digestion but they don't seem to have any adverse affects either.
,,,,,Fruit Slices,"This product is great. The flavor was to die for. I will purchase again, when my sugar high goes away?  : D"
,,,,,Dissapointing,"These look very tasty and me being a candy freak i had to try them. To say the least i was extremely dissapointed. They have a chemical taste and the texture is like chewing glue. Very nasty, i would never eat or buy these again and that goes for any of the flavors."
,,,,,agree!,I have to agree with the other review this flavor is my favorite! These treats are amazing!
,,,,,good product,I tried successfully to make fresh rolls first time. Very easy. Good product. Worked consistently since. I recommend it highly.
,,,,,We love it,"This seasoning is supposed to taste like The Pepper Plant sauce, and I think it does.<br />According to the ingredients are salt, chili peppers, garlic, onion, spices, parsley.<br />Besides putting this on food at the table, we like it on popcorn, and use it a lot<br />in cooking where you might use a dash of cayenne or black pepper."
,,,,,Shh!  This is my secret!!,"I almost hesitate to give a review because this is my ""secret ingredient"" in so many things.<br /><br />My husband is from SLO and when we first met I thought it was so weird that the only thing he wanted from his mom for birthdays and holidays was Pepper Plant Sauce (I don't do spicy so I never tried it).  Then he got some of the seasoning.  Now I understand.  We use it in and on everything - eggs, steaks, popcorn (tip - put it in the butter!), chilli, black beans, soups, cooked vegies, tuna salad, guacamole, develed eggs (my fave).  Somehow almost every time I am ""making up"" some sort of savory recipe, this stuff makes it in there.  Just 2 weeks ago I had the idea to make dip with cream cheese, sour cream, the sauce and some seasoning.  It was a total hit at the play off party.  I just made it again today for our pre-superbowl potluck at work and got rave reviews again.  Heck - while typing this up I had the thought that the seasoning would make an awsome variation to garlic bread or crostini. Mmm - I might have to try that tonight.  You have to promise not to tell anyone though!"
,,,,,Awesome seasoning!,"My buddy turned me on to this stuff during a visit out to Monterey, California. I purchased some there locally and brought it back from vacation with me...and now I use this seasoning on everything. It has an excellent flavor, without too much heat. I use it on meat, vegetables, pasta...you name it. Highly recommended!"
,,,,,"not painfully hot, very tasty","I've liked the hot sauces from The Pepper Plant for a while, so I thought I'd give the seasoning a try.  It's not the hottest seasoning, and I think that's a plus with this stuff -- this seasoning is more of the smokey-salty-spicey pepper variety, and it's a good combination.  I haven't tried it on popcorn like another reviewer (it sounds like a good idea!), but so far it's good on meat, mashed potatoes, even mac & cheese -- anything you want to add a bit of flavor to, plus a little kick."
,,,,,Surprisingly Good--Unbelievable On Barbecue,"Taylor's Market Rules!!!  This product surprised me, even though I've been using Pepper Plant sauces for over 20 years.  I got my first bottle of this seasoning and couldn't believe what it did to the barbecued steaks.  My wife likes it even more than I do, which is totally unexpected.  There's no way we'll run out of it."
,,,,,First Ingredient on the list is SALT,"Just be aware.....the first ingredient on the list is salt.  I don't find this product very peppery, hot or spicy.  It is a disappointment."
,,,,,My favorite Jelly Belly flavor,"I have been a huge fan of Jelly Bellys since I was a kid, which was about 25 years ago.  I have always had a favorite.  At first it was peach, then banana.  Juicy pear came along and that was my favorite for about ten years.  I thought nothing would top it, ever.  Then I tried red apple.  It is sweet and tart and really delicious, my new favorite flavor.  A ten pound box is surprisingly tempting and I am sorry they are currently all sold out."
,,,,,A Surprising Blend of Bean and Apple,"I wasn't sure what to expect from this Jelly Belly flavor. I have eaten ""red apples"" before but they were usually in a fruit. This was a candied bean with ""red apple"" flavors put inside. Despite the obvious witchcrafts, I tried this confection because I am not afraid of the unknown like so many people in the RELIGIOUS RIGHT (WRONG). I was surprised to find that this ""red apple"" had a delicious apple-like flavor and a chew not unlike a finely prepared hamsteak. Would I eat more of these? Yes, I would. I would also recommend this ""red apple"" to anybody who is adventurous and wants to experience a new and exciting way to feel the best parts of the fruit eating process. RED APPLE JELLY BEANS, THEY DO TASTE LIKE APPLES KIND OF BUT NOT COMPLETELY. STILL PRETTY GOOD."
,,,,,Terrific Recovery Drink,I have been using Core Power (formerly Athlete's HoneyMilk) for over a year and I won't use any other product. I add it to smoothies and even use it in recipes that call for milk. If you are tired of the chalky tasting 'milks' out there then stop looking and start drinking Core Power.
,,,,,My secret weapon for recovery!,I found out about this product a year ago when I began training for an ironman. The long training days and intense interval work was beating my body down. I needed something I could take that would help get me ready for the next day's training. I have had nothing but great experiences since incorporating this into my workout regime. Vanilla Core Power reminds me of soft serve ice cream!
,,,,,Great Tasting Protein Drink!,"I used to drink regular chocolate milk after working out to help with recovery, and then I was introduced to Core Power! While I like all of their flavors, Vanilla is my typical go-to. It's so smooth and I never have to worry about a chalky, nasty taste because it's actually made from milk (not powder and water). I'm a big fan of the natural ingredients and can't imagine using anything else to get a great balance of carbs and protein. You can't go wrong with any of Core Power's drinks!"
,,,,,Perfect Recovery Drink,Vanilla is by far my favorite flavor.  It tastes like vanilla bean ice cream so you'd never know you were doing something good for your body.  Lactose free so it's tummy friendly and packed full of protein for a post workout recovery.  This drink couldn't get any better!
,,,,,Delishy.,"This product is delishy.  I did a 10K recently and decided this would be my recovery drink of choice that day.  Forget the amazing nutrient content in the bottle, the flavor is fantastical.  I highly recommend to anyone looking to mix up their recovery routine."
,,,,,Gluten free but delicious!,"These muffins are great.  I've tried many gluten free foods and wasted so much money on things that tasted like cardboard.  I make these muffins  by substituting milk for the water and add 2 mashed bananas and 1 tsp. of cinnamon.  I've tried adding pineapple but didn't like it as much as my version of banana muffins.  My daughter's boyfriend loves these muffins and has no idea that they are made from rice flour.  Another great Namaste item to try is the Spice Cake.  Just add some grated carrots, pineapple, coconut, walnuts and raisins and you've got a kick-butt Carrot Cake.  Thanks to Namaste for the wonderful products......I'm hooked!"
,,,,,BEST muffins,"These Namaste muffins are by far the best gluten free muffins I've discovered in 7 years!  Even better if you add crushed pineapple and coconut, or raisins and cinnamon.  Outstanding product and easy to make."
,,,,,Excellent bag for make up,"This bag is awesome. It has shaved several minutes off my morning routine. I can see all my makeup easily. Bag folds up well with magnetic closure. Travels well. Not good if you are someone with a lot of make up. I can fit several eyeshadows, mascara, blush, under eye makeup, two eyeliner pencils, several eye shadow brushes, q-tips, and a few other items."
,,,,,Like it but a little small & doesn't roll up that well,"I've been using this travel bag at the gym for over a mth. but the color of the bag bled onto my white shirt (pink)....I can't get the stain out and now the shirt is ruined. And now the bag where it's pink is fading onto the white.  I really like the bag, the color and style though.  I just contacted Amazon and they were awesome about sending me out another one free of charge. It has room for your poof ball, shampoo, conditioner, razor, facial cleanser & soap in trial size bottles."
,,,,,Great Travel organizer!,"Gals, this Hadaki travel organizer is GREAT!  Perfect size and wonderful quality.  I use 2 -  one for my makeup and one for my toiletries.  Having 2 separate one's allows for me to keep things separate and make any last minute adjustments to my carry-on luggage in case my suitcase is over 50 lbs!  If all your toiletries (shampoos, body washes, lotions, etc.) are together with your makeup, you can't carry them on (liquids & gels over 2 oz).  It rolls up, but holds alot and has a nice, sturdy metal hanger hook so you can hang them on the back of the hotel bathroom doors.  These Hadaki cases are made with fabulous quality and I love them!  So will you."
,,,,,read the measurements,"This was a little smaller than I thought, but my fault for not reading the measurements. It seems well made out of a vinyl type material and the color really pops in person. The mom I gave it to really loved it and thought it would fit all her necessities in an easy to organize and carry package, so missing accomplished Hadaki!"
,,,,,Great,"I purchased this item as a make up bag and it was perfect. It can be hung or laid out flat, you can see all of your products so they are easy to grab, and there was even space for my brushes.  I would not recommend it for a toiletries bag as it would be too small for me."
,,,,,THis is great quality,"THe color i got is red and looks extremely good in person, I love it, it goes well with everything and looks great."
,,,,,Great function and looks great too!,This case holds a lot and can still fold up well. Great function and looks nice too. The magnet works very well to keep it closed. I'm impressed with this product and will probably look at more of their travel accessories.
,,,,,Good product!,"This is the cutest make-up traveler!  I would have given it 5 stars, but it is smaller than I expected...so if you have a lot of makeup, I wouldn't suggest this product.  But if you're like me, and just want just the necessities when going on a small trip, it's perfect!  Color is fantastic, shiny and bright!"
,,,,,Super cute!!,"This is a great little carry all for my make up!! It is a little smaller than I expected, but I can carry my Clairsonic Mia in it, my make up and a few more items in it, so it will do the job!!"
,,,,,Exactly what I needed,"For some reason, the stores around me stopped having these.  I use this type of bag for a few things in my life: camping gear (sleeping bag, hammock/tent) is able to breathe without being all over the place, storage of down comforter during summer, etc.  Then I got the great idea of using them for my recycling.  What a change in life this has been.  For three years, we've had to take moldy cans to the recycle center to redeem all our beer cans for the 5 apiece.  The little sips of beer in each can accumulate, and get trapped in a plastic bag, so I took my recycle cans and drilled holes in the bottom for drainage, then I line them with these bad boys.  The beer leaks right out, and when they're full, they're dry and while they smell slightly of stale beer, the change to that from stale wet beer and mold is incredible.<br /><br />Would I trust them for laundry?  Probably not if I had to carry it any distance.  They're mesh bags.  Going up or down stair or across the house is probably not a big deal.  Since I don't have machines, I wait until the last possible minute to do my laundry, so these bags would be totally and utterly full, stretching the mesh past its abilities, and would probably rip on the first or second go.  If you're smarter than me, though, and do your laundry in a reasonable amount of time, or don't have to leave your house/complex to do it, they'd probably be fine."
,,,,,Not what I thought...,"I bought these bags b/c I thought they were tough, thick nylon.  I guess these bags would work perfectly fine if you're just using them for transport.  I needed a really tough one like the KBR guys try to sell us for $8 here in Afghanistan...2 of these bags are already in the trash after only 2 uses each.  They wash the laundry in the bag and both have ripped after only 2 uses.  I gave them a 3 b/c they are not that bad..just not what I was needing.  The seller was awesome!  I received the bags here in Afghanistan after only 6 days from the original order date so I have to say the seller was very expedient."
,,,,,"Hot ""Chocolate""?","This item, though a cute idea, really doesn't live up to its title. The pink is fun, especially if you use a glass mug to see the whole drink. The ""hot chocolate"" part of the title is very disappointing. Of course, I wasn't fully expecting a milk chocolate taste, but I honestly can't even say it tastes remotely like white chocolate...or really any kind of chocolate for that matter.<br /><br />If you're looking for a novelty drink, this is cute, especially for young girls. However, if you're expecting something akin to hot cocoa as it is generally understood to be, I would look elsewhere."
,,,,,Perfectly Fancy!!!,"My 9 year old absolutely loves it!  Of course she is a fancy Nancy fan and whenever I sit down to have my Latte, she feels all grown up to have her fancy hot chocolate with her Mommy.  Love the taste and aromatic coconut scent.  I think its great she loves it and its different, she loves it and that is the most important thing she feels she now has her own special drink like Mommy when we cozy up to hot drink.  I have to find some more as she is upset she has ran out and we were lucky to find this one at Home Goods, now have to see where I can order some."
,,,,,pretty color,"This is a very pretty container, and my granddaughter loved the blue color when mixed with water-- but--- it tastes more like coconut than chocolate-- should be labeled hot coconut drink."
,,,,,Dents in 2 of the tins when arrived,"This cocoa is like any other cocoa, other than it is white and turns pink when touches liquid.  The tin is cute, but 2 cans were dented when they arrived. Not sure if it was from shipping or the seller.  A bit over priced in my opinion as well."
,,,,,Not impressed!,"I bought these along with several other Raggedy Ann & Andy hot cocoas.  The Beary Blue and Pink Hot Chocolate both came with dented cans. I'm not sure if they came from the seller that way or if this happened during the shipping process, but I decided to keep them anyway.  This is the only set of hot cocoas that had a sticker of Raggedy Andy wrapped around the tin insted of it being imprinted on the actual tin. Kids seem to love that it turns blue once it touches the milk or water."
,,,,,Luck O' the Irish Hot Chocolate Mix,"Good thing I got this from the bargain bin or I would really be perturbed. Whatever the claims, this mix has no chocolate flavor of any kind. A more correct description would be Coconut flavored drink mix. Apparently the 10 oz rating is including the weight of the ""cauldron"" because there's no way there was 10 oz of product inside. You might get three cups of ""hot chocolate"" per container if you like the ""flavor"" really mild.<br />It really wasn't worth the price I paid and certainly not the inflated regular price. Two of the three cauldrons were dented heavily so those won't even be much use as decoration. Look for a better brand."
,,,,,Tastes Great!,If you have the munchies....you'll like these. Get them on sale....the only downside is I wish they held up better in milk...they go soggy fast...and they still taste great.
,,,,,Great taste but some unfortunate ingredients,"This is a good tasting cereal, probably on the sweet side (the second ingredient is sugar). For taste alone, I'd give it 5 stars but I am deducting a star from my overall rating for ""unfortunate"" ingredients like disodium phosphate, caramel color, yellow 6, BHT, yellow 5, red 40, and blue 1. I don't understand the need for all the ""junk"" ingredients and all the coloring.<br /><br />As for delivery, my cereal arrived fine. There were no problems with shipping, delivery, or packaging. I received it on May 8, 2012 and the ""Best Before"" date was March 21, 2013.<br /><br />For a healthier cereal, I like ""Kashi Organic Cereal, Cinnamon Harvest"" which is made from a small number of ingredients without all the questionable stuff. It's also not as sweet. I give that one 5 stars because it also tastes great (even though it's not as sweet) but the ingredients are healthier than Life."
,,,,,Great cereal!,I love this cereal! I remember Life cereal as a kid.  It has the perfect balance of fiber and cinnamon without being too sweet.
,,,,,Yum,"I love life cereal, these boxes didn't last long but I got a great price during the special. Tasted great."
,,,,,Love this cereal!,I grew up eating the original Life cereal and immediately switched to the cinnamon variety when they released it years ago. This is my favorite cereal and I am already out of the two 4-packs I ordered two weeks ago.
,,,,,Nicely Balanced,Like these with subtle hint of Cinnamon and low sweetness. Nice improvement over some other too sweet Cinnamon cereals. I think the packaging may add up too much to the cost - shall be able to buy in large packets for the family.
,,,,,Yum Yum,"Good stuff, cinnamon and Life Multi-grain cereal, which I hear is better for you. Excellent price, hard to go wrong here."
,,,,,A Better Taste Than The Regular Life Cereals!,"Kids love it, Mom & I love it, and even the dog loves it!  Whether it's for breakfast or just munching on a couple of handfuls for a snack, Cinnamon Life satisfies the hunger crave in all of us!  The sweet cinnamon taste seems to really appeal to breakfast cereal eaters alike.  The only slight complaint I have is it gets soggy really fast, so I try not to put a lot of milk on my cereal."
,,,,,LIFE,A BOWL OF THIS IN THE MORNING IS GOOD STUFF. I ADD FRUIT AND NUTS TO AUGMENT THE TASTE. IT IS A GOOD AND HEALTHY WAY TO START THE DAY. IT HELPS KEEP ME REGULAR.
,,,,,Powder cereal,"This is one of my favorite cereals. But purchase it only if you don't mind eating it in powder form. What you get is mostly powder, not crunchy squares. I will not be ordering again, sorry."
,,,,,Pleased,"I have 4 children, I find these kind of offers a great way to keep the larder full, and the budget on track."
,,,,,Taste Great,Got at a great price.  A little slow (backordered) but worth the wait (savings).  Other than the UPS man using this as a booster seat along the way - all is good otherwise.
,,,,,"Use too many chemicals (colors, preservatives) - not healthy","While taste is OK it's simply using too many artificial colors (blue1, red 40, yellow 5, yellow 6 - approved by FDA doesn't mean it's healthy) and other chemicals (BHT etc) to be used by children.<br />If you're going to eat it yourself - take your chances. But since there are many good and healthy alternatives - why bother?"
,,,,,Great snack for kids/toddlers,"My 2-year old loves these cheerio-like banana flavored snacks. He prefers them to Cheerios. He has also tried the Blueberry flavored version of these snacks, and highly dislikes them, but I think that's just because he isn't a huge fan of blueberries. These are a hit, though!"
,,,,,For all ages! Got these for grandbabies & I plus my 8 & 11yr old  LOVE THESE  ORGANIC BANANA  FLAVORED CRIPSY PUFFS,"My whole family loves these. Not just for babies. These are wholesome organic snacks. If you love bananas, then these are an excellent snack.<br />Great for the whole family any age. I plan to have these as a staple snack in our home."
,,,,,"hard, stale, hurts child's mouth",I was disappointed to receive Earth's Best Organic Snakin' Fruit Rings Banana because it hurt my child when she bit into the hard and stale treat.
,,,,,Taste Great!,These are so awesome I almost don't want to share them with my kids ;)<br />I  had to order a couple more at this price also
,,,,,One of my 15 month old's favorites...,"I bought these in the grocery store one day to ward off an upcoming tantrum and my toddler went crazy for them.  He is a big fan of the puff-type snacks and cheerios, but these and the blueberry ones are his favorite and he will pick them out of the mix I make for him with all different types of puffs.  They are quite a bit harder than the Plum Organics puffs that he also likes, but he just sucks on them and they dissolve.  The container is great because it is small enough to fit in my diaper bag and it also fits well in the cup holder of my car.  Amazon's price is much better than if I buy them individually in the supermarket."
,,,,,no mess no fuss. good AND good to go.,"my kids prefer the banana to the blueberry variety which is fine by me since these are usually a dollar or 2 cheaper. Perfect for snacks, car trips, and just about anything else you can think of. Extremely convenient lid keeps them fresh. Cannot say enough good things about these!"
,,,,,Not too great,"Very crisp and tough, does not melt, but  breaks down into pretty large particles in your mouth.  I enjoy it as a cereal, but neither of my 11 mo old twins<br />really enjoy the tough texture.  They like the melt in your mouth and less sugary taste of the happy baby <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001NXHY8Y"">HAPPYBABY Organic Puffs, Banana Puffs, 2.1-Ounce Packages (Pack of 6)</a> or <a href=""http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001NXM3I0"">HAPPYBABY Organic Puffs, Greens Puffs, 2.1-Ounce Packages (Pack of 6)</a> which is almost salty.<br />They also love saltine or ritz crackers Annies brand and those saltines are just as hard to chew and great for teething on."
,,,,,Great snack,"My daughter (9 months) absolutely loves these ""snackin' fruit rings.""  And I feel much better feeding these to her because they are Earth's Best.  I much prefer this to the other brands puffs.  They do not melt like the other ones, but my daughter is fine with them.  She gets a big smile on her face when she sees me take them out and is trying to open the container to get them.  A great snack, and a great distraction in a restaurant.  I just wish I could buy them in a smaller bulk amount."
,,,,,Delicious wine!! Yummy!,"Great with BBQ, we have discovered and focusing on Team Fox for Parkinson's Research is what 4 Foxes Zinfandel is all about! Enjoy this wine to celebrate bbq's, birthdays or any celebration and know you've also helped raise money for Team Fox!<br />Cheers ~ Jessica Locke, Wines 4 Cures"
,,,,,"Not cheese, salt","We ordered the product and received 2 broken bottles, but Amazon is excellent and reshipped the entire order again one day shipping.  Unfortunately, even at 85 cents a bottle, we overpaid.  There is NO cheese taste and it is really just a salty mess.  Now we have 10 bottles of a below average product.  Save your money."
,,,,,Yummy Cheesey,"I love this product, if you like cheese on you're popcorn this is a must try."
,,,,,Best Popcorn butter salt,"Not a writer but this Reese Cheesy Popcorn is the best in the area Michigan where I use to buy it at Kroger's. We start buying it through amazon because Kroger's stop stocking Reese Cheesy Popcorn, so I hit the net in search of it. It is very tasty on popcorn better than any other power popcorn salt that's been tried by our family. I highly recommend Reese Cheesy Popcorn to all."
,,,,,"You either love it or hate it, apparently","I agree this is not extremely cheesy, but that is what I like about it.  I have been using this for years and only one store near me carried it.  I have recently moved to Florida and can't find it anywhere.  I don't understand the reviews that says it is too salty.  I tried the very overrated Flavacol and found that to be way too salty.  I actually use more of this on my popcorn than I would think because it is not that salty.  It sticks to the popcorn better than salt and has a very good flavor, admittedly not overly cheesy.  Best popcorn seasoning I have ever tasted!"
,,,,,All salt - no cheese,Absolutely NO cheese flavor at all. All you can taste is salt salt salt. Save your money and try something else.
,,,,,I love cheesy popcorn...,"I had used this product for years, but no longer could find it locally.  Was very pleased to find it on Amazon!  Keep in mind, there's no need for added salt -- this is cheesy AND salty.  Yummmm!"
,,,,,The BEST popcorn seasoning,"I first tried Reese's Cheesy Popcorn Seasoning when I bought it at my grocery store.  I loved the cheesy taste and bought two bottles at a time.  A couple of months ago when I needed to purchase more, I found out that the grocery store had discontinued the product.  I Googled it and found that it was available on Amazon.com.  I am so happy that I can purchase it from Amazon, as I tried other brands of popcorn seasoning and was continually disappointed. I love this product!!"
,,,,,Great,My family loves this cheese salt and its very hard to find in stores.  So happy to have found it on amazon.  I bought 12 bottles to share with everyone.
,,,,,popcorn seasoning,this is a great topping for popcorn and i have been using it for years.<br /><br />PS I had written Amazon on October 6th when I received the order because 2 of the bottles were broken--I have not gotten a response.  would appreciate acknowledgement!
,,,,,way too salty,"If you like cheese seasoning on your popcorn, this product will not deliver.  It tastes like they should instead of putting anything cheese related on the label they should say, 'improved salt flavoring that will stick to popcorn more than salt'.  I would recommend anything by Kernal Season's brand... that tastes like cheese.  But if you like a salty tasting popcorn, this is the seasoning for you..."
,,,,,Cheesy popcorn seasoning,"When I couldn't find this product in my grocery store or other stores I shop in I decided to check out Amazon and yea, it was here! My husband and I love this seasoning on our popcorn, really good!!! Speedy delivery, thanks!!"
,,,,,No Cheese Flavor,I bought this at a local Albertsons recently and it is not at all as advertised.  There is no cheesy flavor detectable in the product.  Even the salt flavor is off.  Avoid this product.
,,,,,Not like it used to be,Reese changed their Cheesy Popcorn Seasoning.  It is more salt than cheese.  In fact it has very little cheese flavor left.  I will not be purchasing this product again.
,,,,,Popcorn lover,Reese's is consistently excellent.  Always makes the popcorn taste great.<br /><br />Wouldn't use any other brand.  I buy in bulk.<br /><br />I prefer the plain salt version (no additives) - but cheesy is quite good.
,,,,,A Good Price,"I love this popcorn seasoning and it was cheaper to order through Amazon than to buy thru the local grocery store that charges $2.58 a bottle and is usually out of the product for weeks at time.  My only disapointment was that one of the bottles was broken when it arrived. Usually items ordered from Amazon are well padded to prevent breakage but this time there were none of the little airbags that give that extra padding. Still, I would order the product again."
,,,,,Great treat for dogs!,"This is a great treat and my Maltese loves them! I love them because of the organic ingredients, no artificial coloring or flavors, and it's low cal, which means I can offer her an extra treat now and then. However, I do think they could have come up with a better name for the product other than ""Get Naked"". I was reluctant to do a search for it assuming I'd end up on a porno site."
,,,,,Incredible Edible,"Very good!!! Tried it years ago. Whole foods, for some reason, decided to stop carrying Eden Foods(in my area). So I am HAPPY that Amazon has come to the rescue. The garlic taste is subtle. Cooks up well. JUst wish that it could be pruchased by the bag and not the case.It's a must try."
,,,,,Excellent quality,"I asked my brother, who is a chef, how he felt about the quality of the product he received and if he could recommend it to anyone. His comments were that quality was excellent and he would enjoy having it again in the future as a gift. He looked at the idea of buying something similar from Hickory Farm in the Mall where he lives since Mother's Day caught him and me by surprise since it arrived a week early this year and he came to the conclusion that this product was far better product than anything he could find in the Mall. I had thought Hickory Farm would work since he would have physical access to viewing any items from them and his comment was that Wisconsinmade, this company whose product I am reviewing, did a far better job in quality and produce. I think that says it. For those who see only volume and not quality, stay with the grocery store, it will give you lots of volume if that is your criteria.  I will note that I bought a couple of these products from this company and I have copied the same review to each so that people will know that this company has excellent quality.  Quality cheese and quality sausage is expensive and this company makes it well."
,,,,,Don't waste your money,"This is an okay gift box, only if you like mediocre cheese and summer sausage. The items are small, smaller than they appear in the picture. I only paid $30, but I would not purchase it again. On the positive side, the mustard samples that come with it make the items edible."
,,,,,Great customer service!,We had a minor issue with the packaging of our order but the company made it right VERY quickly. I am very impressed with their customer service! Thanks for a great experience! :)
,,,,,Best or 2nd best mango chutney in the world,My wife thinks it is the best in the world and I think Stonewall Kitchen is the best
,,,,,Festive little seashells,We added these to some salt water taffy in the favors for my step-daughter's beach themed wedding. They were a lovely addition and realy added to the theme.
,,,,,What?,"What? This product is NOT what is showed in the photo. Instead of the box of Xtra Sour Goo which was shown, I recieved Monster Goo, which is NOT what I wanted to get. This company does not send you exactly what is in the photo, so watch out."